<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p131" title="131"/>
<section title="Additional Resources" epub:type="backmatter appendix">
<h1 class="appendix-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#app-2"><strong>Appendix B:</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="appendix-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#app-2"><strong>Additional Resources</strong></a></h1>
<section title="Books and Reports">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-56"><strong><a id="pinpt3"/>BOOKS AND REPORTS</strong></h1>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt4"/>Anderson, James D. <em>NISO TR02-1997 Guidelines for Indexes and Related Information Retrieval Devices.</em> Baltimore, MD: National Information Standards Organization, 1997.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt5"/>Borko, Harold and Charles L. Bernier. <em>Indexing Concepts and Methods.</em> New York: Academic Press, 1978.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt6"/>Lancaster, F. W. <em>Indexing and Abstracting in Theory and Practice.</em> 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: University of Illinois, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, 2003.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt7"/>Mulvany, Nancy. <em>Indexing Books.</em> 2nd ed. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2005.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt8"/>Ritter, R. M. <em>New Hart&#x2019;s Rules: The Handbook of Style for Writers and Editors.</em> New York: Oxford University Press, 2005.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt9"/>Stauber, Do Mi. <em>Facing the Text, Content and Structure in Book Indexing.</em> Cedar Row Press, 2004.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt10"/>University of Chicago Press. <em>The Chicago Manual of Style.</em> 15th ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2003.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><em><a id="pinpt11"/>Webster&#x2019;s Standard American Style Manual.</em> Springfield, MA: Merriam-Webster, 1994.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt12"/>Weinberg, Bella Hass. <em>Can You Recommend a Good Book on Indexing? Collected Reviews on the Organization of Information.</em> Medford, NJ: Information Today for the American Society of Indexers, 1998.</p>
<p class="para-hang"><a id="pinpt13"/>Wellisch, Hans H. <em>Indexing from A to Z.</em> 2nd ed. Bronx, NY: H. W. Wilson Co., 1996.</p>
<p class="space-break"><a id="pinpt14"/>Information Today, Inc. publishes a series of books on indexing in conjunction with the American Society of Indexers. The series covers information specific to running an indexing business, as well as a series of books on various indexing specialties such as history, law, medicine, and scholarly books. Information on the series is available at: <a href="http://books.infotoday.com/books/index.shtml&#x0023;index">books.infotoday.com/books/index.shtml&#x0023;index</a>. Of particular interest to authors, editors, and others who work with indexers are two chapters from <em>Indexing Specialties: Scholarly Books</em> (ed. Towery &#x0026; Zafran, ITI 2005): Chapter 8, &#x201C;Confessions of an Author-Indexer&#x201D; by John Bealle, and Chapter 9, &#x201C;The Quality of a Scholarly Index: A Contribution to the Discourse&#x201D; by Margie Towery.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p132" title="132"/>
</section>
<section title="Journals">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-57"><strong><a id="pinpt15"/>JOURNALS</strong></h1>
<p class="para-hang"><em><a id="pinpt16"/>The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing,</em> published by the Society of Indexers: <a href="http://www.theindexer.org">www.theindexer.org</a></p>
<p class="para-hang"><em><a id="pinpt17"/>Key Words.</em> Newsletter of the American Society of Indexers. Available on Amazon.com via Thomson Gale.</p>
</section>
<section title="Organizations">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-58"><strong><a id="pinpt18"/>ORGANIZATIONS</strong></h1>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt19"/>American Society of Indexers: <a href="http://www.asindexing.org">www.asindexing.org</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt20"/>Association of Southern African Indexers and Bibliographers: <a href="http://www.asaib.org.za">www.asaib.org.za</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt21"/>Australian and New Zealand Society of Indexers: <a href="http://www.aussi.org">www.aussi.org</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt22"/>China Society of Indexers: <a href="http://www.cnindex.fudan.edu.cn">www.cnindex.fudan.edu.cn</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt23"/>Indexing Society of Canada/Soci&#x00E9;t&#x00E9; canadienne d&#x2019;indexation: <a href="http://www.indexers.ca">www.indexers.ca</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt24"/>The (British) Society of Indexers: <a href="http://www.indexers.org.uk">www.indexers.org.uk</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt25"/>Society for Technical Communications, Indexing SIG: <a href="http://www.stcsig.org/idx">www.stcsig.org/idx</a></p>
</section>
<section title="Indexing Software">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-59"><strong><a id="pinpt26"/>INDEXING SOFTWARE</strong></h1>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt27"/>CINDEX, published by Indexing Research: <a href="http://www.indexres.com">www.indexres.com</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt28"/>MACREX, published by Macrex Indexing Services: <a href="http://www.macrex.com">www.macrex.com</a></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt29"/>SKY Index Professional, published by SKY Software: <a href="http://www.sky-software.com">www.sky-software.com</a></p>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
