<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p133" title="133"/>
<section title="Glossary of Indexing Terms" epub:type="backmatter glossary">
<h1 class="appendix-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#app-3"><strong>Appendix C:</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="appendix-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#app-3"><strong>Glossary of Indexing Terms</strong></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><strong><a id="pinpt3"/>Array.</strong> A unit in the <em>index</em> consisting of all the <em>entries</em> common to the same <em>main heading.</em> Sometimes also called an <em>entry.</em></p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt4"/>Blind cross-reference.</strong> A <em>cross-reference</em> that does not lead anywhere in the <em>index</em>; for instance, in an index with no array for &#x201C;Dogs,&#x201D; a cross-reference saying &#x201C;Canines. <em>See</em> Dogs.&#x201D; Such cross-references are usually relics of an earlier version of the index (in which an array for Dogs <em>did</em> exist). Editors and authors who decide to remove entries should be aware of the possibility of creating blind cross-references. <em>Generic cross-references</em> are sometimes referred to as blind cross-references, since they do not point to a specific entry.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt5"/>Circular cross-reference.</strong> A set of <em>cross-references</em> that lead the user in a never-ending circle (Books. <em>See</em> Texts; Texts. <em>See</em> Documentation; Documentation. <em>See</em> Books).</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt6"/>Continued line.</strong> An abbreviated version of the <em>heading,</em> followed by an abbreviation for the word &#x201C;continued,&#x201D; repeated at the top of a new column when an <em>array</em> runs over more than one column.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt7"/>Cross-reference.</strong> <em>See also</em> Blind cross-reference; Circular cross-reference; Generic cross-refererence. Provides a navigational structure that helps guide users from one place in the index to another. There are two types of cross-references in indexes. The first, <em>see also</em> references, directs users from their current place in the index to where they will find additional relevant information. <em>See also</em> references can also direct users to parallel or related information (Dogs. <em>See also</em> Wolves). <em>See</em> references direct readers from alternative terms to the <em>heading</em> where cognate information is collected (Dogs. <em>See</em> Canines).</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt8"/>Depth of indexing (granularity).</strong> <em>See also</em> Exhaustivity. The level of detail in the text that will be picked up in the <em>index</em>.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt9"/>Differentiation of locators.</strong> <em>See also</em> Undifferentiated locators. The act of breaking down a long string of undifferentiated <em>locators</em> attached to a <em>main heading</em> and redistributing them to a set of appropriate <em>subheadings</em>.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt10"/>Disambiguation.</strong> The art of distinguishing two identical terms with different meanings, usually with a parenthetical comment (Henry IV (king of England); Henry IV (king of France)).</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p134" title="134"/>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt11"/>Double-posting.</strong> The placement of identical <em>locators</em> under two or more different <em>headings,</em> allowing users to find the information they want in whichever of those places they look. If an <em>array</em> is too long to double-post, it should be <em>cross-referenced.</em></p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt12"/>Embedded indexing.</strong> The tagging of <em>entries</em> and/or text so that entries may be attached, or embedded, into the text itself and the <em>locators</em> generated when the book is formatted or reformatted.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt13"/>Entry.</strong> The atom of the <em>index</em>; consists of a piece of information and its location in the text. An entry may consist of a <em>main heading</em> and <em>locator</em> only, or a main heading, <em>subheading</em>, and locator, or even multiple levels of subheading. An entry may also be comprised of a piece of information and a <em>cross-reference</em>. This use of the term should be differentiated from main entry&#x2014;properly termed main heading<em>&#x2014;</em> and subentry (better called subheading). The term <em>entry</em> is also sometimes used to mean <em>array.</em></p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt14"/>Exhaustivity.</strong> Inclusion of all relevant material in the <em>index.</em> Exhaustivity, however, must go hand-in-hand with discrimination; the good index provides everything the reader wants to find but also does not provide entries for things a reader does not want to find. All substantive references to Genghis Khan, for instance, should be included, but it is just as important <em>not</em> to include passing mentions and metaphorical usages (&#x201C;Sir John Gaines of Newton was the Genghis Khan of America&#x201D;), which do not provide any useful information about Genghis Khan.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt15"/>Generic cross-reference.</strong> Instead of directing readers to a specific place in the index, suggests types of alternative entries to look for (American Indians. See <em>names of specific tribes</em>).</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt16"/>Granularity.</strong> <em>See</em> Depth of indexing.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt17"/>Heading.</strong> <em>See also</em> Main heading; Subheading. The terms in the <em>index</em> that lead the user to information.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt18"/>Headnote.</strong> Placed at the beginning of the <em>index,</em> a set of instructions to readers, alerting them to any unusual or nonstandard practices or special coverage issues in the index.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt19"/>Indented style.</strong> A format for presenting index <em>entries</em> in which each <em>subhead</em> is set off individually, on its own line.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt20"/>Index.</strong> Provides access to information by analyzing a given text and collecting similar concepts together, which are then presented to the user in a known or stated searchable order, along with their location in the text.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p135" title="135"/>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt21"/>Inversion.</strong> Flipping the order of words in a phrase for alphabetizing purposes (Malpractice, medical).</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt22"/>Keyword.</strong> Significant individual words that are key in capturing the desired concept; keywords are usually the ones that indexers try to push to the beginning of the line for alphabetizing purposes. In the phrase &#x201C;risk management issues,&#x201D; for instance, &#x201C;risk&#x201D; is the keyword.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt23"/>Locator.</strong> The part of the <em>entry</em> that tells readers where the information in the <em>heading</em> is located in the text. Locators are most usually page numbers but may range from paragraph or section numbers assigned to parts of the text to full bibliographic citations, grid numbers for maps, etc. The <em>headnote</em> should provide information on how to interpret complex locators. In electronic indexes, the locator may not be visible (one may simply click on the entry to go to the location), but it is still there, directing traffic.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt24"/>Main heading (or main entry).</strong> The top-most level of information in an <em>entry</em>, beginning at the left margin without indents and determining the overall placement of the entry in the index&#x2019;s search order.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt25"/>Metatopic.</strong> The overarching subject that the book is about.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt26"/>Orphan.</strong> The last line of an <em>entry</em> as the first line of a page or column.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt27"/>Run-in style (paragraph style).</strong> A format for presenting index <em>entries</em> in which <em>subentries</em> are joined after the main heading on a continuous line.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt28"/>Running head.</strong> A guide phrase repeated in the upper and/or lower margin of a book to help readers figure out where they are.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt29"/>Runover line (turnover line, wrapped line).</strong> A continuing, usually indented line that is used for an <em>entry</em> that is too long to fit on a single line.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt30"/>Subheading (or subentry).</strong> Secondary levels of information in an <em>array,</em> providing more detailed information about the <em>main heading.</em> Subheadings may be broken down into sub-subheadings and even sub-sub-subheadings or further, but most indexers today frown on going deeper than three levels (main heading, subheading, and sub-subheading).</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt31"/>Undifferentiated locators.</strong> <em>See also</em> Differentiation of locators. Multiple <em>locators</em> attached to a <em>heading</em>. Most indexers set limits to how many undifferentiated locators they will allow per heading in a given <em>index,</em> after which they will <em>differentiate</em> them.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt32"/>Widow.</strong> The first line of an <em>entry</em> as the last line of a page or column.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><a id="pinpt33"/>Wrapped line.</strong> <em>See</em> Runover line.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
