<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p119" title="119"/>
<section title="Electronic Files" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-10"><strong>Chapter 10</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-10"><strong>Electronic Files</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>An indexer&#x2019;s use of electronic files will depend on the preferences of both the indexer and the publisher, as well as the nature of the particular job. Some indexers, and some publishers as well, still prefer to work from hardcopy proofs. Few if any professional indexers today would consider preparing an index without indexing software. So in a sense, all indexers work with electronic files whether the text is in electronic format or not. Before discussing just how an indexer might use electronic files, a discussion of indexing software and document formats is appropriate.</p>
<section title="Indexing Software Capabilities">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-50"><strong><a id="pinpt4"/>INDEXING SOFTWARE CAPABILITIES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>There are two types of software commonly used for creating indexes. The first is dedicated indexing software, which allows the indexer to create an index as a stand-alone document. The second type includes word processing and page building programs that allow the indexer to embed (or tag) terms within the electronic file and then generate an index using those tags.</p>
<section title="Dedicated Indexing Software">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt6"/>Dedicated Indexing Software</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>Dedicated software is the type most often used by professional indexers. It automates the tasks of alphabetization and checking cross-references, for example, while giving the indexer complete freedom in choosing terms and building the index hierarchy. The three major commercial indexing software programs available at this writing are CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY Index Professional.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>Dedicated software is essentially a database-type tool, and the indexer must enter each term into the program. The software provides many time-saving features such as auto-completion of entries, repetition of entries, and warnings for incomplete entries, so the tediousness of typing terms is reduced, and accuracy is enhanced.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>When editing an index, the advantages of dedicated software become even more apparent. As mentioned, the software can alphabetize and can do so according to the indexer&#x2019;s or editor&#x2019;s specifications. The programs have options for word-by-word or letter-by-letter sorting, with options to force-sort specific terms if necessary. The software can check spelling and verify cross-references quickly and accurately. It even allows individual entry arrays to be viewed so that double-postings can be verified (see <a href="chapter003.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>).</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p120" title="120"/>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/>In addition, the indexer can sort the index by page number and take advantage of many other features such as search and replace capabilities, macros and abbreviations, and dragging and dropping between indexes or between an index and an electronic text document like a Word file or PDF.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt11"/>Much to an editor&#x2019;s delight, the indexer can also easily make certain modifications that may be required due to last-minute changes in the text (see <a href="chapter009.xhtml">Chapter 9</a> for details).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt12"/>One of the greatest advantages of dedicated software is the ability to see the index in a fully formatted form as it is being created. This lessens editing time and leaves more time for the indexer to focus on the index structure. The software also can provide line counts and track time spent on a specific index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt13"/>What dedicated indexing software will not do is create a concordance or list of terms found in a document. Even if this were possible (and it is with different software), it would not produce an index. No computer program can discern effectively between substantive and passing references, nor can it choose terms for the index that are not actually present in the text. The human element is necessary to produce a quality index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt14"/>Once the index is written and edited, the indexer can save the file in a format that can be used by the publisher (an RTF or word processing format, for example).</p>
</section>
<section title="Embedded Indexing Software">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt15"/>Embedded Indexing Software</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt16"/>Software that allows the indexer to embed, or tag, terms in the actual text file includes word processing programs, such as Microsoft Word, and page building programs, such as FrameMaker, QuarkXPress, or InDesign. Using these programs, the indexer creates hidden tags or codes that contain terms to be included in the index. After the document is tagged, the software generates a formatted index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt17"/>Embedded indexing is often used by technical writers whose end product will be electronic or online documentation. Since page numbers are of no import, indexing can conceivably begin before the final edit is completed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt18"/>Waiting to index the document until all writing and editing is complete will probably save time in the long run, however. It will not only avoid re-indexing but could also prevent problems with file-sharing and version control. When the files are ready to be indexed, the indexer should be granted exclusive use of the files.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt19"/>The great benefit of embedded indexing software is that if page breaks change because of reformatting or because multiple publishing formats are being used, the index tags will be repaginated along with the text, so re-indexing is not necessary. Instead, the index is regenerated after the new format is set.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt20"/>Problems can arise, however, if text undergoes rewriting or extensive editing and index codes are accidentally moved or deleted. If substantial editorial changes are made, terms may have changed, which would require re-indexing. This becomes a tedious process since changes in embedded indexes are not made easily; each <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p121" title="121"/>source tag must be edited separately, rather than on a group basis as with dedicated indexing software.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt21"/>Due to software limitations, it is more difficult to create a quality index by embedding terms than by using dedicated indexing software. Challenges presented by embedded indexes include:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt22"/>No global editing functions &#x2013; It may not be possible to use a global editing function to edit index source tags; hence, each embedded term will have to be edited individually.</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt23"/>Limited sorting options &#x2013; It may not be possible to force-sort terms or to sort them in page-number order. Some programs can, however, generate a list of tags.</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt24"/>No tools for checking cross-references or double-postings.</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt25"/>Difficulty in creating page ranges in the index.</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt26"/>Because of these software limitations, some indexers create indexes using dedicated indexing software, and embed the terms in the electronic document. There has been a cry from indexers for better software or software utilities to facilitate embedded indexing. While some utilities exist, they could still be improved to make the indexer&#x2019;s job easier. Editors should be aware of the difficulties inherent in using embedded indexing software, as more than the usual time may be required to complete and edit an index using this method.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Document Formats">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-51"><strong><a id="pinpt27"/>DOCUMENT FORMATS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt28"/>The format of electronic documents supplied to the indexer will depend on whether the indexer is using dedicated indexing software or is creating an embedded index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt29"/>When creating a stand-alone index using dedicated indexing software, text can be provided in PDF files or even in paper form only. Indexers may have preferences in file set-up, such as whether the text is submitted as one file or is separated into individual chapters. Of course, with the appropriate software, the indexer can split or combine files once received, but it saves time if files are created initially in the preferred form. This is another example of when communication between editor and indexer makes a difference.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt30"/>The size of the files may also determine how they are sent to the indexer. For a scholarly book with very few figures, one PDF may be a manageable size. (When transferring PDFs, there is no need to zip or compress the file, as PDFs are already as compressed as they can get.) For a how-to book with several color illustrations per page, files may have to be broken into chapters before transmission. An alternative is <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p122" title="122"/>to send the indexer low-resolution files. Editors should ask indexers about email size limitations before sending files.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt31"/>If the indexer is creating an embedded index, the files will be sent in the format of the software used for writing the document. Therefore, the editor must know that the indexer has the appropriate software&#x2014;both the type as well as a compatible version.</p>
</section>
<section title="File Transfers">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-52"><strong><a id="pinpt32"/>FILE TRANSFERS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt33"/>There are several ways in which electronic files can be transferred back and forth between indexer and editor. In addition to attaching files to email, such methods include using FTP and file transfer services.</p>
<section title="FTP (File Transfer Protocol)">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt34"/>FTP (File Transfer Protocol)</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt35"/>Transferring large files that may be blocked by an email service can often be handled using FTP, or file transfer protocol. When using FTP, the publisher posts the electronic files to a specific location within its Web site or a special FTP site. The indexer then accesses these files using an FTP program and downloads the files to his computer. All that the indexer needs is the FTP address of the file (which looks like a regular Web address except that it starts with &#x201C;ftp&#x201D; instead of &#x201C;http://&#x201D;, for example, ftp.companyname.com), as well as the password to access the site.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt36"/>Some Web browsers, such as Firefox, have FTP plug-ins (small, auxiliary programs) available. You can also find open source (usually free) FTP programs at such sites as Tucows (<a href="http://www.tucows.com">www.tucows.com</a>) and SourceForge.net (<a href="http://www.sourceforge.net">www.sourceforge.net</a>).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt37"/>The speed of the file transfer will depend, of course, on the speed of the indexer&#x2019;s Internet connection.</p>
</section>
<section title="File Transfer Services">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt38"/>File Transfer Services</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt39"/>There are now a number of online file transfer services for sending large files from one computer to another. These services include SendSpace.com, YouSendIt.com, and TransferBigFiles.com.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt40"/>Generally, file transfer services use the following process. First, using the service&#x2019;s Web site, you upload a file to their central server. The file service then sends an email to the file recipient that includes a link to the file. The recipient clicks on the link and the file is automatically downloaded to her computer.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt41"/>Many of these file transfer services are free. Search the Internet for &#x201C;file transfer services&#x201D; to find them.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p123" title="123"/>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Indexers&#x2019; Use of Electronic Files">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-53"><strong><a id="pinpt42"/>INDEXERS&#x2019; USE OF ELECTRONIC FILES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt43"/>When working from PDFs, indexers may work only with the electronic file, with a paper printout of the file, or with both. The varied approaches to working with PDFs were discussed at a breakout session during the 2007 annual conference of the American Society of Indexers (ASI). Some panelists said they print the document and work from the paper copy in a traditional manner. Others said they work solely from the electronic file, using widescreen computer monitors or two side-by-side monitors to display both the text and the dedicated indexing software. Some print out a paper copy, but also rely on the ability to search a PDF document as an aid in editing. Actual work methods vary as well, regardless of document format. Some indexers will mark documents, whether paper or electronic, as part of the indexing process; some work without marking.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt44"/>When creating an embedded index, the indexer must have an appropriate version of the software and be a competent user of the program. The indexer will insert software-specific tags in the document to allow the software to generate an index. Or, indexers may be inserting publisher-defined tags, which are then matched to a stand-alone index, allowing the publisher to do the actual embedding.</p>
<p class="space-break"><a id="pinpt45"/>Editors and indexers must communicate early during the indexing process about file formats and software versions to ensure successful use of electronic files. In many cases, if format translation is involved, it is helpful to run a test to validate that the indexer&#x2019;s output can be appropriately translated and used by the publisher. This should be done early in the indexing process to ensure that no problems arise at the time the index is due.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p124" title="124"/>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
