<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><a id="pii"></a>
<div class="body1">
<p>&#160;</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><em>First Printing, 2008</em></p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</strong></p>
<p class="noindent1-top">Copyright &#x00A9; 2008 by American Society of Indexers, Inc.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top">All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without the express written permission from the Society except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages for a review.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong>Publisher&#x2019;s Note:</strong> The editor and publisher have taken care in preparation of this book but make no expressed or implied warranty of any kind and assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. No liability is assumed for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of the information or programs contained herein.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top">Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book and Information Today, Inc. was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed with initial capital letters.</p>
<p class="center-top">Published by<br/>Information Today, Inc.<br/>143 Old Marlton Pike<br/>Medford, NJ 08055</p>
<p class="center-top">in association with</p>
<p class="center-top">The American Society of Indexers, Inc.<br/>10200 West 44th Avenue<br/>Suite 304<br/>Wheat Ridge, CO 80033</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent-top">Printed in the United States of America</p>
<p class="noindent1-top">President and CEO: Thomas H. Hogan, Sr.</p>
<p class="noindent">Editor-in-Chief and Publisher: John B. Bryans</p>
<p class="noindent">Managing Editor: Amy M. Reeve</p>
<p class="noindent">VP Graphics and Production: M. Heide Dengler</p>
<p class="noindent">Book Designer: Kara Mia Jalkowski</p>
<p class="noindent">Copy Editor: Dorothy Pike</p>
<p class="noindent">Proofreader: Kathleen Spaltro</p>
<p class="noindent">Indexer: Fred Leise</p>
<p class="noindent">Chair of Publications Committee, ASI: Enid L. Zafran</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>