<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><a id="pix"/>
<h1 class="introduction-title"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#intr-1"><strong>Introduction</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt2"/>This book is intended primarily for:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt3"/>Production editors</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt4"/>Authors</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt5"/>Project managers</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt6"/>Communications managers</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt7"/>Web site developers</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>It will also be useful for anyone else who from time to time needs to commission an index from a professional indexer.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>For many, the art and science of indexing is opaque. Our goal, therefore, is to provide you with basic information about what an index is and what it is not (<a href="chapter001.xhtml">Chapter 1</a>), how it serves its readers, and, perhaps most importantly, how to evaluate and edit an index that has been submitted to you (<a href="chapter009.xhtml">Chapter 9</a>).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/>Because the specific contexts (business, content, and users) differ for each index, it is difficult to provide answers that apply to all cases. But we can and have given you guidelines as to best practices. We also provide guidance on what issues to consider as you make the decisions best suited to your individual situation.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt11"/>Framing all of our discussions is the importance of index usability. Readers and users of indexes must be able to find the information they need easily and efficiently. If an index doesn&#x2019;t fulfill that basic purpose, then its value as a significant information finding tool is severely compromised.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt12"/>To help ensure that you get the best index possible, we also offer information on:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt13"/>Numbers and types of indexes (<a href="chapter002.xhtml">Chapter 2</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt14"/>Characteristics of a good index (<a href="chapter003.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt15"/>Index style and format (<a href="chapter004.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt16"/>Determining or changing index length (<a href="chapter005.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt17"/>Editor/author/indexer relationships (<a href="chapter006.xhtml">Chapter 6</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt18"/>Hiring an indexer (<a href="chapter007.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt19"/>What an editor needs to tell an indexer (<a href="chapter008.xhtml">Chapter 8</a>)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt20"/>Use of electronic files (<a href="chapter010.xhtml">Chapter 10</a>)</li></ul><a id="px"/>
<p><a id="pinpt21"/>This book will not help you become an indexer&#x2014;although indexers themselves may find it valuable. Rather it will give you the knowledge necessary to feel comfortable when dealing with indexes and indexers, knowing that you have a complete reference source to turn to.</p>
<p class="right"><a id="pinpt22"/>Fred Leise<br/>Kate Mertes<br/>Nan Badgett</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
