<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="about_character_classes">3.9 <span class="heading"><span id="en-subheading2_9">About Character Classes</span></span></h3><h4 id="differences_in_positioning_of_characters_and_symbols">3.9.1 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading2_9_1">Differences in Positioning of Characters and Symbols</span></span></h4><p>The positioning of characters and symbols may vary depending on the following.</p><ol>
					<li>
					<p>Is the character width <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.full-width">full-width</a>, <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.half-width">half-width</a>, or something else?</p></li>
					<li>
					<p>Is it allowed or forbidden to place the character or symbol at the <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.line-head">line head</a>? If it is allowed, how will it be placed?</p></li>
					<li>
					<p>Is it allowed or forbidden to place the character or symbol at the <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.line-end">line end</a>? If it is allowed, how will it be placed?</p></li>
					<li>
					<p>Are characters and symbols appearing in sequence in <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.solid-setting">solid setting</a>, or will there be a fixed size space between them? For example,
               sequences of <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic characters (cl-19)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a> are set solid, and for <a class="characterClass" href="cl-27.xhtml#cl-27">Western characters (cl-27)</a> following <a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a> there will be quarter em space.
             </p></li>
					<li>
					<p>Is it allowed to have a line break within a sequence of characters? For example, there must not be a line break in a sequence
               of <a class="characterClass" href="cl-24.xhtml#cl-24">grouped numerals (cl-24)</a>.
             </p></li>
					<li>
					<p>Is it allowed to use the space between characters in a sequence during <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.line-adjustment">line adjustment</a> processing? For example, is inter-character
               space reduction or addition possible between the characters appearing in sequence? Another issue to be decided is the preferred
               order for adjustment processing, and the amount of the allowed adjustment.
             </p></li>
				</ol></body></html>