<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h4 id="basic_concepts_about_illustration_positioning">4.3.2 <span class="heading">Basic Concepts about Illustration Positioning</span></h4><p>When the position of an illustration within a page is specified only by the relation between illustration and
                        main text, it is desirable that the explanation of the illustration in the main text and the illustration are as close as
                        possible to each other.
                     </p><table class="t_note">
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 1)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>Depending on the size of an illustration, it may not be possible to have references to the illustration and the illustration
                                 itself on the same page. In such cases, the following considerations for illustration positioning are taken into account.
                              </p>
							
							<ol>
								<li>
                                 
                                    
                                    <p>It is better to position the illustration on the page after the page with references to the illustration, and not on the page
                                       before the references.
                                    </p>
                                 
                              </li>
								<li>
                                 
                                    
                                    <p>Sometimes there are no references to an illustration, but an explanation of the illustration appears before it. That means that
                                       it is not possible to avoid in every case that illustrations appear on the page before (or after) the references. If the illustration
                                       and its references are on the same <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.spread">spread</a> it is often possible to be tolerant with illustration positioning.
                                    </p>
                                 
                              </li>
								<li>
                                 
                                    
                                    <p>Many aspects have to be taken into account with regards to the positioning of illustrations. This means that, even if automatic processing
                                       is used as much as possible, according to the layout result it will be necessary to change the position of references or the size
                                       of the illustration manually.
                                    </p>
                                 
                              </li>
							</ol>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table></body></html>