<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h4 id="characters_not_starting_a_line">3.1.7 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading2_1_7">Characters Not Starting a Line</span></span></h4><p>In principle, no line should begin with <a class="characterClass" href="cl-02.xhtml#cl-02">closing brackets (cl-02)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-03.xhtml#cl-03">hyphens (cl-03)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-04.xhtml#cl-04">dividing punctuation marks (cl-04)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dots (cl-05)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-06.xhtml#cl-06">full stops (cl-06)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">commas (cl-07)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-09.xhtml#cl-09">iteration marks (cl-09)</a>, a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-10.xhtml#cl-10">prolonged sound mark (cl-10)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-11.xhtml#cl-11">small kana (cl-11)</a> or  <a class="characterClass" href="cl-29.xhtml#cl-29">warichu closing brackets (cl-29)</a> (<a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.line-start-prohibition-rule">line-start prohibition rule</a>). Otherwise the line would have an odd appearance.</p><table class="t_note">
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 1)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>Not a small number of books adopt a less strict  set of rules which allow <span class="character">IDEOGRAPHIC ITERATION MARK "々"</span> (one of the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-09.xhtml#cl-09">iteration marks (cl-09)</a>), <a class="characterClass" href="cl-10.xhtml#cl-10">prolonged sound mark (cl-10)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-11.xhtml#cl-11">small kana (cl-11)</a> to start a line.
  There is another method whereby <span class="character">IDEOGRAPHIC ITERATION MARK "々"</span> is replaced by a kanji character when it would otherwise be set at the head of a line. For example, 家 (at the end of a line) + 々 (at the head of the next line) will be changed to 家 (at the end of a line) + 家 (at the head of the next line).</p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 2)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>There is yet another less strict rule that allows <span class="character">KATAKANA MIDDLE DOT "・"</span> to start a line.</p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 3)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>In the layout of newspaper text,
								in addition to the symbols above,
								<a class="characterClass" href="cl-04.xhtml#cl-04">dividing punctuation marks (cl-04)</a> (<span class="character">QUESTION MARK "?"</span> and <span class="character">EXCLAMATION MARK "!"</span>) are allowed to start a line. This is due to the fact
 that the line lengths are shorter in newspapers. When the line is very short, there are fewer opportunities for inter-character
 space adjustment, which makes it difficult to preserve the number of characters per line. It is thought
 that this is  why the less strict set of line head wrapping rules was adopted in newspaper text layout. </p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 4)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>
								The details of the <a class="termref2nd" href="terminology.xhtml#term.line-start-prohibition-rule">line-start prohibition rules</a> and <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.line-end-prohibition-rule">line-end prohibition rules</a>, including the relaxations specified above, are described in <a class="sec_ref" href="spacing_between_characters.xhtml#spacing_between_characters">Appendix B Spacing between Characters</a>
as a complete table,  in accordance with the description of character classes in <a class="sec_ref" href="about_character_classes.xhtml#about_character_classes">3.9 About Character Classes</a>.
The line-start prohibition rules and line-end prohibition rules can be considered as <a class="sec_ref" href="spacing_between_characters.xhtml#spacing_between_characters">Appendix B Spacing between Characters</a>. The details of these rules are also described in <a class="sec_ref" href="possibilities_for_linebreaking_between_characters.xhtml#possibilities_for_linebreaking_between_characters">Appendix C Possibilities for  Line-breaking between Characters</a>. Furthermore, line-start prohibition rules and line-end prohibition rules have several variations, so  four different levels of character classes are allowed at the  line-start and  line-end in <a class="sec_ref" href="possibilities_for_linebreaking_between_characters.xhtml#possibilities_for_linebreaking_between_characters">Appendix C Possibilities for  Line-breaking between Characters</a> <a class="sec_ref" href="addendum_a3.xhtml#addendum_a3">C.3 Addendum</a>.
</p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table></body></html>