<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="how_this_document_was_created">1.2 <span class="heading"><span id="en-subheading0_2" class="index">How This Document was Created</span></span></h3><p>This document was created by the W3C Japanese Layout Task Force. The Task Force has discussed many issues and harmonized the requirements from user communities and solutions from technological experts. It includes the following participants:					</p><ol>
				<li>
					
						
						<p>Japanese text composition
experts (The editors of "JIS X 4051 : Formatting rules for Japanese documents").</p>
					
					</li>
				<li>
					
						
						<p>Internationalization and standardization experts in Japan (from Microsoft, Antenna House, JustSystems).</p>
					
					</li>
				<li>
					
						
						<p>Members of the <a href="http://www.w3.org/">W3C</a> <a href="http://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/">CSS</a>, <a href="http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/">SVG</a>,
 <a href="http://www.w3.org/Style/XSL/">XSL</a> and <a href="http://www.w3.org/International/core/">i18n Core</a>,
Working Groups.</p>
					
					</li>
			</ol><p>This task force also constitutes an important innovation due to its bilingual work-flow. Discussion is mainly conducted in Japanese, because
           of the Japanese <a class="termref2nd" href="terminology.xhtml#term.composition">composition</a> issues, but minutes and one mailing list were in English. To support  development, the task force
            held face-to-face meetings with participating Working Groups.</p><p>The document itself was also developed bilingually, and is published bilingually. We carefully avoided
           using jargon for technical terms. Even if there were English words corresponding to the Japanese, we carefully studied any potential differences
           in the nuances of meaning, and if there were differences between corresponding concepts, we provided the Japanese
           jargon in romaji (Latin transliteration) for future discussion. Moreover, we prepared as many figures as possible, with clear
           and understandable English, to help non-Japanese readers.         </p></body></html>