<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="japanese_and_western_mixed_text_composition">3.2 <span class="heading"><span id="en-subheading2_2">Japanese and Western Mixed Text Composition (including Horizontal-in-Vertical Text Composition)</span></span></h3><h4 id="composition_of_japanese_and_western_mixed_texts">3.2.1 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading2_2_1">Composition of Japanese and Western Mixed Texts</span></span></h4><p>There are a lot of examples of Japanese text in which Western and/or Greek letters are mixed among Japanese letters. Examples
   are as follows:
</p><ol>
					<li>
   
    
    <p>Using one Latin letter as a symbol for something, like "A" and "B".</p>
   
   </li>
					<li>
   
    
    <p>Using a Western word in a Japanese context, like "editor".</p>
   
   </li>
					<li>
   
    
    <p>Using acronyms of things and organization names, like "DTP" and "GDP".</p>
   
   </li>
					<li>
   
    
    <p>Writing Western book titles and authors in lists of referred books with original spelling.</p>
   
   </li>
				</ol><p>Latin letters are also used in <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.itemization">itemized lists</a> and numbering of <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.heading">headings</a>, as well as symbols for units, symbols for chemical elements,
   and mathematical symbols. As can be judged from these examples, mixtures of Latin letters among Japanese letters are in daily use
   in Japanese composition.</p><table class="t_note">
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 1)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>There are some examples which include whole Western paragraphs in Japanese documents.  However, there are few ordinary books that
     include such paragraphs. There are a lot of examples of textbooks for foreign languages,
     in which one or more Western paragraphs are followed by annotations in Japanese language. Also, there are some examples in treatises and journals, which contain whole Western paragraphs.</p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 2)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>In <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.vertical-writing-mode">vertical writing mode</a>, symbols for units are usually described with <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a>, such as センチメートル (centimeter) or センチ(abbreviation of centimeter in katakana, "senchi"). In <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.horizontal-writing-mode">horizontal writing mode</a>, the International System of Units (SI) is usually used, such as "cm". </p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 3)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>The treatment of mixtures of Japanese and Western characters is also described in JIS X 4051 4.7.</p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table></body></html>