<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="notes_a2">B.2 <span class="heading"><span id="en-app2_2">Notes</span></span></h3><ol class="decimal">
<li>
		
			
			<p>When <a class="characterClass" href="cl-01.xhtml#cl-01">opening brackets (cl-01)</a> are followed by a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-22.xhtml#cl-22">simple-ruby character complex (cl-22)</a> or <a class="characterClass" href="cl-23.xhtml#cl-23">jukugo-ruby character complex (cl-23)</a>, the preferred approach is to allow the ruby text to be extended up to the size of the ruby character over the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-01.xhtml#cl-01">opening brackets (cl-01)</a>. One alternative approach is to not allow ruby text to be extended over opening brackets, and another is to allow it to be extended up to half the size of the ruby character.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>The preferred spacing between <a class="characterClass" href="cl-02.xhtml#cl-02">closing brackets (cl-02)</a> and the line end is a half em. The alternative is to set solid (JIS X 4051 adopts solid setting method, see <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_closing_brackets_full_stops_commas_and_middle_dots_at_line_end.xhtml#positioning_of_closing_brackets_full_stops_commas_and_middle_dots_at_line_end">3.1.9 Positioning of Closing Brackets, Full Stops, Commas and Middle Dots at Line End</a>).</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>Character spacing between two consecutive <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dots (cl-05)</a> shall be the sum of a quarter em of the preceding middle dots and a quarter em of the trailing middle dots.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>The preferred spacing between <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dots (cl-05)</a> and the line end is a quarter em. The alternative is to set solid (JIS X 4051 adopts solid setting method, see <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_closing_brackets_full_stops_commas_and_middle_dots_at_line_end.xhtml#positioning_of_closing_brackets_full_stops_commas_and_middle_dots_at_line_end">3.1.9 Positioning of Closing Brackets, Full Stops, Commas and Middle Dots at Line End</a>).</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>In this document, character spacing between a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-06.xhtml#cl-06">full stop (cl-06)</a> or <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> and a following <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> is the sum of the half em space of the full stop or comma and the quarter em space of the middle dot. On the other hand, JIS X 4051 classifies <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">commas (cl-07)</a> as a subset of <a class="characterClass" href="cl-02.xhtml#cl-02">closing brackets (cl-02)</a>, and, therefore, where a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> is followed by a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> in JIS X 4051 the character spacing between them is just the quarter em space of the following <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a>.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>The preferred spacing between <a class="characterClass" href="cl-06.xhtml#cl-06">full stops (cl-06)</a> or <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">commas (cl-07)</a> and the line end is a half em. The alternative is to set solid (JIS X 4051 specifies that the space after <a class="characterClass" href="cl-06.xhtml#cl-06">full stop (cl-06)</a> is a half em and the space after <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> is solid, see <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_closing_brackets_full_stops_commas_and_middle_dots_at_line_end.xhtml#positioning_of_closing_brackets_full_stops_commas_and_middle_dots_at_line_end">3.1.9 Positioning of Closing Brackets, Full Stops, Commas and Middle Dots at Line End</a>).</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>When a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-22.xhtml#cl-22">simple-ruby character complex (cl-22)</a> or <a class="characterClass" href="cl-23.xhtml#cl-23">jukugo-ruby character complex (cl-23)</a> is adjacent to <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a>, the preferred approach is to allow the ruby text to be extended up to the size of the ruby character over the katakana. However, if it is required to conform to JIS X 4051, ruby text shall not be extended over the katakana because katakana characters belong to the ideographic character class in JIS X 4051.</p>
		
		
			
			<p>There are alternative methods, one of which is to allow ruby text to be extended up to the size of the ruby character over any character including <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic (cl-19)</a> as well as <a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> characters, and another  is NOT to allow ruby text to be extended over any character from <a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic characters (cl-19)</a>.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>Ruby text can be extended up to the size of the ruby character over the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-14.xhtml#cl-14">full-width ideographic space (cl-14)</a>. The preferred approach is to apply the same for the full-width line head indent at the beginning of a paragraph. The alternative approach is not to allow ruby text to be extended over the line head indent.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>When two adjacent characters belong to the same  <a class="characterClass" href="cl-21.xhtml#cl-21">ornamented character complex (cl-21)</a> run, set them according to the method explained in <a class="sec_ref" href="other_rules_of_japanese_typesetting.xhtml#superscripts_and_superscripts">3.7.1 Superscripts and Superscripts</a>. When two adjacent characters belong to two distinct  ornamented character complex runs, set them solid.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>When two adjacent characters belong to the same  <a class="characterClass" href="cl-22.xhtml#cl-22">simple-ruby character complex (cl-22)</a> run, set them according to the method explained in <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_monoruby_with_respect_to_base_characters.xhtml#positioning_of_monoruby_with_respect_to_base_characters">3.3.5 Positioning of Mono-ruby with Respect to Base Characters</a> or <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_groupruby_with_respect_to_base_characters.xhtml#positioning_of_groupruby_with_respect_to_base_characters">3.3.6 Positioning of Group-ruby with Respect to Base Characters</a>. When two adjacent characters belong to two distinct  simple-ruby character complex runs, set them solid.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>When two adjacent characters belong to the same  <a class="characterClass" href="cl-23.xhtml#cl-23">jukugo-ruby character complex (cl-23)</a> run, set them according to the method explained in <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_jukugoruby_with_respect_to_base_characters.xhtml#positioning_of_jukugoruby_with_respect_to_base_characters">3.3.7 Positioning of Jukugo-ruby with Respect to Base Characters</a>. When two adjacent characters belong to two distinct  simple-ruby character complex runs, set them solid.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>Character spacing between a preceding <a class="characterClass" href="cl-25.xhtml#cl-25">unit symbol (cl-25)</a> and a trailing <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> shall be a quarter em of the trailing character. Note that <span class="character">KATAKANA MIDDLE DOT "・"</span> can be used either as a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-25.xhtml#cl-25">unit symbol (cl-25)</a> or as a middle dot. When it is used as a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-25.xhtml#cl-25">unit symbol (cl-25)</a>, both preceding and trailing spacing of <span class="character">KATAKANA MIDDLE DOT "・"</span> shall be zero.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>There shall be no visible space occupied by <a class="characterClass" href="cl-26.xhtml#cl-26">Western word space (cl-26)</a> at the line head and that of warichu (inline cutting note), the line end and that of warichu (inline cutting note). If the condition is changed for the same text, restore the default visible space for <a class="characterClass" href="cl-26.xhtml#cl-26">Western word space (cl-26)</a>.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>In principle <a class="characterClass" href="cl-09.xhtml#cl-09">iteration marks (cl-09)</a> should be placed neither at the line head nor at the head of an inline cutting note. When it happens with <span class="character">IDEOGRAPHIC ITERATION MARK "々"</span>, there are three ways to deal with this situation.</p>
		
			<ol>
			<li>
			
				
				<p>Follow the principle by applying some sort of line adjustment. In this case, <span class="character">IDEOGRAPHIC ITERATION MARK "々"</span> remains in <a class="characterClass" href="cl-09.xhtml#cl-09">iteration marks (cl-09)</a>.</p>
			
			</li>
			<li>
			
				
				<p>Allow <span class="character">IDEOGRAPHIC ITERATION MARK "々"</span> to be placed either at the line head or at the head of an inline cutting note. In this case, the character shall be treated as part of the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic characters (cl-19)</a> class.</p>
			
			</li>
			<li>
			
				
				<p>Replace <span class="character">IDEOGRAPHIC ITERATION MARK "々"</span> with the corresponding character.</p>
			

			<table class="t_sample">
				<tr><td rowspan="2" class="ft">
				
				<p>e.g.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line end: 国</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line head: 々</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>&lt;is replaced with&gt;</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line end: 国</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line head: 国</p>
				</td>
				</tr><tr>
				<td>
				
				<p>line end: 人</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line head: 々</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>&lt;is replaced with&gt;</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line end: 人</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				
				<p>line head: 人</p>
				</td>
				</tr>
			</table>
			</li>
			</ol>
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>In principle, a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-10.xhtml#cl-10">prolonged sound mark (cl-10)</a> should be placed neither at the  head of a line nor that of an inline cutting note. If it were  allowed, the character shall be treated as part of the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> class.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>In principle, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-11.xhtml#cl-11">small kana (cl-11)</a> should be placed neither at the head of a line nor that of an inline cutting note in principle. If it were to be allowed, HIRAGANA LETTER SMALL * shall be treated as part of the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a> class, and KATAKANA LETTER SMALL * as part of the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> class.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>The preferred character spacing between the line head and opening <a class="characterClass" href="cl-01.xhtml#cl-01">opening brackets (cl-01)</a> is zero. An alternative way is not to remove a conditional half em space accompanying the characters (see <a class="sec_ref" href="positioning_of_opening_brackets_at_line_head.xhtml#positioning_of_opening_brackets_at_line_head">3.1.5 Positioning of Opening Brackets at Line Head</a> including methods of positioning of opening brackets at the beginning of paragraphs).</p>
		
</li>
</ol></body></html>