<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="notes_a4">D.2 <span class="heading"><span id="en-app4_2">Notes</span></span></h3><ol class="decimal">
<li>
		
			
			<p>The default unadjusted space when a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> is followed by a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a>, is the sum of the conditional quarter em space accompanying the preceding <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> and the conditional quarter em space accompanying the trailing <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a>. Tables 3 and 4 allow these two quarter em spaces to be reduced, to leave no space as a minimum. The priority order in space reduction is the fourth in Table 3, and it is the second priority in Table 4.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>The default unadjusted space when a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-06.xhtml#cl-06">full stop (cl-06)</a> is followed by a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a>, is the sum of the conditional half em space accompanying the preceding <a class="characterClass" href="cl-06.xhtml#cl-06">full stop (cl-06)</a> and the conditional quarter em space accompanying the trailing <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a>. Tables 3 and 4 allow the quarter em space accompanying the trailing <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> to be reduced, to leave no space as a minimum. The priority order in space reduction is the fourth in Table 3, and it is the second priority in Table 4.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>The default unadjusted space when a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> is followed by a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a>, is the sum of the conditional half em space accompanying the preceding <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> and the conditional quarter em space accompanying the trailing <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> (in Table 4, the conditional half space accompanying preceding <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> and the conditional quarter space accompanying trailing <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dot (cl-05)</a> can be reduced to solid setting).
Table 5 allows the conditional half em space accompanying preceding <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> to be reduced to a quarter space as a minimum.
The priority order in space reduction for the conditional space accompanying <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dots (cl-05)</a> is the fourth in Table 3 and the second in Table 4.
The priority order in space reduction for the conditional space accompanying <a class="characterClass" href="cl-07.xhtml#cl-07">comma (cl-07)</a> is the fifth in Table 3 and the third in Table 5.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>There is no opportunity for space reduction for a <a class="characterClass" href="cl-26.xhtml#cl-26">Western word space (cl-26)</a> at the line head and at the line end since there is supposed to be no visible space. The same applies to the <a class="characterClass" href="cl-26.xhtml#cl-26">Western word space (cl-26)</a> at the line head or the line end of warichu (inline cutting note). If the condition is changed for the same text, restore the default visible space for <a class="characterClass" href="cl-26.xhtml#cl-26">Western word space (cl-26)</a>.</p>
		
</li>
<li>
		
			
			<p>Table 3, and only Table 3, allows the preceding and trailing conditional quarter em space accompanying <a class="characterClass" href="cl-05.xhtml#cl-05">middle dots (cl-05)</a> to be reduced to leave no space. The priority order is the third.</p>
		
</li>
</ol></body></html>