<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h4 id="procedures_for_intercharacter_space_expansion">3.8.4 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading2_8_4">Procedures for Inter-Character Space Expansion</span></span></h4><p>As with line adjustment by inter-character space reduction, for line adjustment by inter-character space expansion at first
            the order of processing and the maximum amount of space to be added are defined. In JIS X 4051, the following processing order
            is defined.
          </p><ol>
					<li>
					<p><a class="characterClass" href="cl-26.xhtml#cl-26">Western word space (cl-26)</a>, which is usually one third em, is added equally with proportional character size up to a maximum of a half em size for each space.</p></li>
					<li>
					<p>The quarter em space between Japanese text (<a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic characters (cl-19)</a>) and Latin script text (<a class="characterClass" href="cl-24.xhtml#cl-24">grouped numerals (cl-24)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-27.xhtml#cl-27">Western characters (cl-27)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-25.xhtml#cl-25">unit symbols (cl-25)</a>) is increased equally
               with proportional character size, up to half em space (or <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.one-third-em-space">one third em space</a>).</p><table class="t_note"><tr><td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
               <p>(note 1)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
               
               <p>Like with inter-character space reduction, there are also examples there the quarter em space between Japanese text (<a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic characters (cl-19)</a>) and Latin
                    script text (<a class="characterClass" href="cl-27.xhtml#cl-27">Western characters (cl-27)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-24.xhtml#cl-24">grouped numerals (cl-24)</a> and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-25.xhtml#cl-25">unit symbols (cl-25)</a>) is regarded as a fixed space size, and space
                    adaptation is not applied.
                 </p></td></tr></table></li>
					<li>
              <p>For places which do not fall under (a) or (b) and which do not have
the inseparable character rule (bunrikinshi), space is added equally with proportional character size up to a quarter em space.</p></li>
					<li>
					<p>In addition to the adaptation in the manner of (a), (b) and (c), in cases where such processing is not possible, space is added
               equally with proportional character size, with the exception of places which require the inseparable character rule (bunrikinshi).
             </p><table class="t_note"><tr><td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
              <p>(note 1)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
              
              <p>JIS X 4051 provides a definition in addition to (d). This says that it depends on each layout processing system whether inter-character space should be added equally. This includes the space between <a class="characterClass" href="cl-27.xhtml#cl-27">Western characters (cl-27)</a>.
                 </p></td></tr><tr><td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
                  <p>(note 2)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
                  
                  <p>The detail of the places where space expansion is possible for line adjustment is described in <a class="sec_ref" href="opportunities_for_intercharacter_space_expansion_during_line_adjustment.xhtml#opportunities_for_intercharacter_space_expansion_during_line_adjustment">Appendix E Opportunities for  Inter-character Space Expansion during Line Adjustment</a> as a complete table, in accordance with the concept of character class in <a class="sec_ref" href="about_character_classes.xhtml#about_character_classes">3.9 About Character Classes</a>.</p></td></tr></table></li>
				</ol></body></html>