<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="reference_of_definition_and_others">1.5 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading0_5">Reference of Definition and Others</span></span></h3><p>The definitions of technical terms are described in the <a class="sec_ref" href="terminology.xhtml#terminology">Appendix G Terminology</a> appendix. Terms are linked to corresponding places in the Terminology appendix only at first appearance and in important places. If there is no appropriate English terminology for Japanese terminology, or the English terminology may possibly cause misunderstanding, the Japanese terminology is only transliterated to Hepburn style romaji notation (except that "m", not "n", is used  before "b", "m" and "p").
</p><p>Also, the definitions of terminology in the Terminology appendix are basically the same as the definitions of JIS X 8125 or JIS X 4051, with respect to common Japanese usage of terminology.
</p><p>Each character class has its own character class number in parentheses. Members of each character class are listed in <a class="sec_ref" href="character_classes.xhtml#character_classes">Appendix A Character Classes</a>, except for CJK Ideographs.
Each character in this document is named and referred to using the character names of ISO/IEC 10646 (UCS).
</p><p>The formal title of the frequently mentioned Japanese Industrial Standard JIS X 4051 is as follows:
</p><blockquote>


<p>JIS X 4051 : 2004 Formatting rules for Japanese documents
</p>
</blockquote><p>
JIS X 4051 is available from the Japan Standards Association (http://www.jsa.or.jp/), but a PDF version is not available from JSA. The PDF version is accessible from the Japanese Industrial Standards Committee site (http://www.jisc.go.jp/), however it is not possible to download it.
</p></body></html>