<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
	xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8"></meta>
		<title>The Solar System</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="ch1">
			<h1>The Solar System</h1>
			
			<div id="solar-system-text">
                <p>At the center of the Solar System is the Sun. It is a star, like the billions of other stars in the sky. The other stars are very, very far away, so they look tiny. The Sun is important to us because it gives us heat and energy that allows life. None of the life on Earth could exist without the Sun.</p>
                <p>The rest of the things in the Solar System orbit (travel around) the Sun. The planets are the largest of these. Each planet is a little like the Earth. But the planets are also very different from each other.</p>
                <p>Many of the planets have moons. A moon orbits a planet. Mercury has no moons and nor does Venus. Earth has one. Jupiter has 63!</p>
                <p>The planets closest to the Sun are called the inner planets. These are Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. Then comes a big ring of asteroids, chunks of rock much smaller than planets. This ring is called the asteroid belt. Within the asteroid belt, there is a dwarf planet (smaller than a normal planet) named Ceres. Then come the outer planets: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Farther out there are two dwarf planets, Pluto and Eris.</p>
			</div>
            
			<object data="solar-system.xml" type="application/x-epub-quiz" id="solar-system-quiz">
                <h2>The Solar System and Beyond</h2>
               <ol>
                   <li><p>What is the name given to planets like Jupiter and Neptune?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>Gas Giants</li>
                           <li>Gas Monsters</li>
                           <li>Rocky Dwarves</li>
                           <li>Rocky Giants</li>
                      </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>Why does Saturn have a longer year than Earth?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>Saturn is closer to the Sun than Earth</li>
                           <li>Saturn spins slower than Earth</li>
                           <li>Saturn is bigger than Earth</li>
                           <li>Saturn is further away from the Sun than Earth</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>When do you get a lunar eclipse?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>The Moon is between the Earth and the Sun</li>
                           <li>The Earth is between the Moon and the Sun</li>
                           <li>The Sun is between the Moon and the Earth</li>
                           <li>The Moon is between the Earth and Mars</li>
                      </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>When do you get a solar eclipse?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>The Moon is between the Earth and the Sun</li>
                           <li>The Earth is between the Moon and the Sun</li>
                           <li>The Sun is between the Moon and the Earth</li>
                           <li>The Moon is between the Earth and Mars</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>What causes the seasons?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>The Earth is closer to the Sun during the Summer</li>
                           <li>The Sun cools down during the Winter</li>
                           <li>The Earth's axis is tilted</li>
                           <li>The Earth cools down during the Winter</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>Which of these objects does not make its own light?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>The Sun</li>
                           <li>A Star</li>
                           <li>A Fire</li>
                           <li>The Moon</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>                    
                   <li><p>How long does it take the Earth to rotate once on its axis?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>24 hours</li>
                           <li>12 hours</li>
                           <li>28 days</li>
                           <li>365 days</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>How long does it take the Earth to travel once around the Sun?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>24 hours</li>
                           <li>7 days</li>
                           <li>365 days</li>
                           <li>28 days</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>Which planet is 4th in order from the Sun?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>Mars</li>
                           <li>Jupiter</li>
                           <li>Saturn</li>
                           <li>Uranus</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                   <li><p>What force keeps the planets in their orbits?</p>
                       <ol type='a'>
                           <li>Air resistance</li>
                           <li>Magnetism</li>
                           <li>Gravity</li>
                           <li>Weight</li>
                       </ol>
                   </li>
                </ol>
			</object>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
