<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p137" title="137"/>
<section title="About the Authors" epub:type="backmatter">
<h1 class="author_bio-title"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#auth-1"><strong>About the Authors</strong></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><strong><em><a id="pinpt2"/>Fred Leise</em></strong></p>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>Prior to co-founding Intuitect (a software development company) in 2005, Fred Leise was an information architecture (IA) consultant, providing IA and taxonomy development services for such clients as Harpo, Inc., Abbott Laboratories, HP, Dow Corning, Accenture, the Social Security Administration, and Columbia College Chicago. Fred honed his IA skills as a member of the fabled Argus Associates in Ann Arbor, MI, where he worked under the direction of Lou Rosenfeld and Peter Morville.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt4"/>He has worked as a freelance indexer since 1995, specializing in scholarly works in the humanities, including East Asian history and civilization, international relations, and politics. His index to <em>Art and Affection: A Biography of Virginia Woolf</em> by Panthea Reid was one of three works shortlisted for the 1998 ASI/H. W. Wilson Company Indexing Award. Fred indexed Mikhail Gorbachev&#x2019;s <em>My Country and the World</em> in 2000.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>Fred has written and spoken extensively on controlled vocabularies and indexing, in addition to presenting workshops on taxonomies and controlled vocabularies at the annual conferences of the Information Architecture Institute, the Special Libraries Association, and the American Society of Indexers (ASI). He has taught indexing for the University of Chicago Publishing Program, the Graduate School of Library and Information Science of Dominican University (River Forest, IL), and Columbia College Chicago. In September 2006, he was in Brunei and Kuala Lumpur presenting taxonomy workshops under the sponsorship of Singapore-based DZ Hampton. Fred is currently President-Elect of ASI, on whose board he has served two previous terms.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><em><a id="pinpt6"/>Kate Mertes</em></strong></p>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>Kate Mertes is sole proprietor of Mertes Editorial Services, providing indexing, information retrieval, and editorial expertise for complex, challenging projects in law and the humanities. Kate has a BA in medieval studies, a PhD in medieval history, and a post-doctoral degree in theology. After teaching at university level for several years, she moved into publishing with a stint at Oxford English Dictionaries.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>After nine years as a managing editor of indexing with Research Institute of America, a legal publishing company, Kate started her own business in 1998. She has lived in Alexandria, VA, since 1992.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p138" title="138"/>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>Kate served on the board of ASI from 1998 to 2004, and was president of ASI in 2002 to 2003. She was president of the Washington, D.C., chapter of ASI from 2005 to 2006. Some of her recent projects include indexing the Oxford Jewish Study Bible, a 1,200-page edition of the works of James Wilson (a signatory of both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of 1787) for Liberty Fund, volumes in Cambridge University Press&#x2019;s series on the history of Christianity, and legal texts for Thompson Publishing Group.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/>Kate is also the author of <em>Good Governance and Politic Rule: The English Noble Household, 1250</em>&#x2013;<em>1550</em>, and has authored chapters in many of ASI&#x2019;s publications on the indexing of legal, historical, and theological materials. She is currently composing a chapter on classical and medieval nomenclature for ASI&#x2019;s new book on names and naming. Kate teaches a course on indexing for the Catholic University of America.</p>
<p class="noindent1-top"><strong><em><a id="pinpt11"/>Nan Badgett</em></strong></p>
<p><a id="pinpt12"/>Nan Badgett, who does business as Word-a-bil-i-ty, has provided indexing and editorial services to publishers, corporate clients, and authors since 1991. Nan works almost exclusively on trade books, although she has authored indexes for textbooks, periodicals, and technical manuals. Her experience includes creating embedded indexes using both FrameMaker and Word. Areas of subject expertise include construction, home improvement, and woodworking; sports training and sports psychology; and sewing and crafts. She has worked in a variety of other subjects from education to bird watching. Nan has presented at ASI national conferences and has provided corporate training in indexing methods.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt13"/>Prior to her indexing career, Nan worked as a legal assistant in a government agency, a corporate writer for a retail company, and a book production assistant for a book packager. She is also a published freelance writer. Nan has a BA in French and was trained in indexing through the USDA Graduate School. She was a founding member of the Arizona Chapter of ASI, and served that chapter as both president and secretary. Nan lives with her husband in Tucson, AZ, and is an avid cyclist and hiker.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
