<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p107" title="107"/>
<section title="Editing an Index Without Tears" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-9"><strong>Chapter 9</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-9"><strong>Editing an Index Without Tears</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>The indexer has finished the project and emailed it off to you. It is sitting in your mailbox, blinking balefully at you. You click on the paperclip and open it up. <em>Now</em> what do you do with it? You know you are supposed to &#x201C;review&#x201D; it, but how exactly do you do that? It is not like the other sorts of text you regularly handle.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt4"/>Authors and editors new to indexes may be whizzes at whipping chapter material into shape, but an index is a different sort of beast. Novice reviewers of indexes tend to take one of two very different paths. One choice is not to review it at all, and the other involves a detailed review.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>Some authors and editors choose no review: They open up the file, maybe put it into two columns to see what it looks like that way. Perhaps they print it out. Well, it <em>looks</em> like an index. The person who created it has produced a lot of indexes. Yes, that entry seems to pertain to the book. Okay&#x0021; While many an indexer who is proud of her work would be perfectly happy with that scenario, it&#x2019;s true that authors and editors can often improve an index with a judicious review.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt6"/>On the other hand, some clients are determined to review the index thoroughly. So they set about it the same way they would review any text: They read it. They become bogged down in details, mostly to do with the mechanics of the index. Why is that term here when there is something similar over there? Why has the indexer used commas in this case, and semi-colons in that? What is the difference between 99, 100&#x2013;101 and 99&#x2013;101?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>Things that work perfectly well in the context of the index as a reference document begin to look very strange taken one by one. Much of what the author or editor ends up querying is perfectly normal indexing practice, and they have missed the meat of what they really need to review&#x2014;whether the index actually helps in finding subject matter in the text.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>This chapter aims to assist authors and editors in reviewing an index thoroughly and efficiently, by treating it as what it is: a reference document. Most people (indexers excepted) never read an index from beginning to end. They consult it in order to find things in the text. The most effective way for a non-indexer to review an index is to actually take it out for a test drive. A good index will help you navigate &#x201C;the road&#x201D; of the book; a bad one will have you lost by page 3. It should also serve all populations of potential readers.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p108" title="108"/>
<section title="From Index to Text: Does the Index Serve New Readers?">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-46"><strong><a id="pinpt9"/>FROM INDEX TO TEXT: DOES THE INDEX SERVE NEW READERS?</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/>Readers who are new to the text&#x2014;who have not read it or used it before&#x2014;need to be served by the index. To check whether the index works for such users, reviewers should think of what a person coming across the book might want to find in it.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt11"/>Let us say the index under review belongs to a book about whales. What would a potential reader of the book check the index for? Possibly for types of whales, the definition of whales, the Latin term for the species, and perhaps topics such as extinction and endangerment. (This is assuming, of course, that these topics are in the book. Indexers cannot insert information into the book that is not there. Make sure you are checking for things a new user could actually find in the book.)</p>
<p><a id="pinpt12"/>Can you find the information quickly, either under the term you checked or via a cross-reference? Follow these entries to the pages referenced. Does the material on the pages readily connect to what the index led you to expect there? Check one to three entries per column of index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt13"/>If the text is aimed at more than one audience&#x2014;for instance, for specialists but also for general readers&#x2014;try to think of dual vocabulary terms you might expect to find. In a book on whales, for instance, a biologist might look up the word &#x201C;cetaceans&#x201D; to find information about types and definitions, while an ordinary reader might look under &#x201C;whales.&#x201D; If you are finding what you would expect to find this way, the indexer has done a good job. If not, some revision is required.</p>
</section>
<section title="From Text to Index: Reviewing for Long-Term Value">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-47"><strong><a id="pinpt14"/>FROM TEXT TO INDEX: REVIEWING FOR LONG-TERM VALUE</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt15"/>Besides new readers, indexes also have to serve re-readers: those who have kept the book and will consult it in future. These users have a pretty good idea of what is in the text, but they need to be able to find it again.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt16"/>The reviewer should go over about 10 pages of the text and then try to find subject matter from that section in the index. For instance, if you read a portion of text about the Japanese whaling industry, where would you look in the index when you to wanted to find that information later?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt17"/>Remember to check in a variety of spots: Under J for Japan is one obvious answer, but there should probably also be an entry or cross-reference under something like &#x201C;commercial whaling industries.&#x201D; Try to check not only for obvious, hard-target items like names, but more amorphous subject matter like &#x201C;folktales about whales and whaling, Japanese.&#x201D;</p>
<p><a id="pinpt18"/>Check for relevant entries for at least two 10-page sections for every 100 pages of text. Once again, if you can find what you are looking for either directly or via cross-references, the index is doing its job. If not, you have found a problem.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p109" title="109"/>
</section>
<section title="Errors">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-48"><strong><a id="pinpt19"/>ERRORS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt20"/>Much as we would all like to produce perfect work, authors, editors, and indexers all know that this just does not happen. Everyone makes mistakes, and even with the multiple checks and balances that texts being prepared for publication go through, indexers often find a few errors when the text finally gets to them. And that is after the acquisitions editor, the author, the production editor, the copyeditor, the proofreader, and the compositor have all had a go at it.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt21"/>Indexers generally do their own proofing&#x2014;some indexers will use a separate proofreader for very large projects, but most of the time there is no budget or schedule to allow for it. So on occasion errors do creep into indexes. Indexers themselves have very low tolerance levels for error. A straw poll of experienced indexers reveal that most expect an error rate of well under 1 percent.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt22"/>Certainly, publishers with set error rate expectations should be able to hold indexers to that same standard. If an index appears to have a rather high rate of error&#x2014;more errors than you feel you can easily catch and fix yourself&#x2014;you should go back to the indexer and ask for additional proofing. Clients should not have to conduct a detailed proofing of the index to ensure its accuracy; that is the indexer&#x2019;s job.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt23"/>Of course, that leads to the question of what exactly an index error <em>is</em>, versus a difference of opinion about how to approach a particular entry. Some things&#x2014;like the proper spelling of a name (Frederick Douglas rather than Frederick Douglass) or a page range of, say, 60&#x2013;61 for material that is actually covered on pages 135&#x2013;136&#x2014;are obvious errors that must be corrected.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt24"/>However, other issues fall into a less black-and-white category. Part of the problem with delegating to other people is that everyone takes a slightly different approach, and if one does not wish to do everything oneself, one also has to learn to live with that fact. Indexers, who tend to be control freaks, are well aware of this problem and will try to match client expectations.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt25"/>Clients, for their part, need to be aware that indexers have an enormous amount of experience in terms of where readers look for things, and they usually have very good reasons for the wording and coverage choices they make. Asking about a particular practice, rather than assuming error, is always wise. Things that look odd from the self-conscious point of view of a reviewer may in fact work extremely well when the index is actually being used.</p>
</section>
<section title="Revisions">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-49"><strong><a id="pinpt26"/>REVISIONS</strong></h1>
<section title="Doing It Yourself vs. Getting the Indexer to Do It">
<h2 class="level2a"><strong><a id="pinpt27"/>Doing It Yourself vs. Getting the Indexer to Do It</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt28"/>Most often, the index review yields only a few minor points that authors or editors can easily adjust on their own. In some cases it is not a bad idea to run even minor changes past the indexer, though. First of all, what seems minor to <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p110" title="110"/>you may in fact have wider repercussions. In an index, a single entry may have many relationships</p>
<p><a id="pinpt29"/>You may decide to simply change the page range for an entry, for instance. The entry could have variants elsewhere in the index, however (an entry &#x201C;dogs, 29&#x2013;30,&#x201D; may be paralleled with &#x201C;canines, 29&#x2013;30,&#x201D; for instance). Or, say you need to correct the spelling of a name as a main entry; but that name occurs elsewhere in subheads throughout the index, as well.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt30"/>Again, you may decide to make a minor alteration to the main entry of an array, and that array could be cross-referenced to the original phrase in a number of other places. The indexer is more likely to remember and find all such related entries and will be able to make those changes globally, so the index remains consistent.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt31"/>In addition, the feedback can be useful. Indexers like feedback, but we do not often get it. We can learn and improve from even minor revision work. This is especially true when it comes to regular clients. Rather than making the same changes over and over again, give them to the indexer so he can learn your style and preferences.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt32"/>Let&#x2019;s say the index needs more than a few minor changes. How do you best indicate what you want to ensure you get the best index possible? We should consider index revisions in two lights. First, we will think about the process of communicating changes to the indexer, and then we will consider those things that actually require alteration.</p>
</section>
<section title="The Revision Process">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt33"/>The Revision Process</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt34"/>The biggest problem authors and editors sometimes face in revising an index comes from communication&#x2014;how best to explain what is not understood or does not work. Five key aspects of the revision process, properly handled, will make communication simpler and clearer.</p>
<section title="Ask Questions&#x2014;Do Not Make Accusations">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt35"/>Ask Questions&#x2014;Do Not Make Accusations</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt36"/>It is generally a bad idea to begin a note to an indexer (or to anybody, for that matter) with &#x201C;There is a terrible problem&#x201D; or &#x201C;This is a disaster.&#x201D; For one thing, that automatically sets up an adversarial relationship, which may be very tough to back out of. For another, it simply may not be true.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt37"/>What might be horrible for an editor to contemplate repairing might be a very simple programmatic fix for an indexer (reformatting all the page ranges, for instance). Or, you may be overanalyzing a basic indexing rule that in fact works perfectly well or can be easily altered. For instance, a co-author of this book once worked with an author who was horribly confused over what appeared to her to be inconsistent ways of treating cross-references, and she spent ages trying to figure out what had happened.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p111" title="111"/>
<p><a id="pinpt38"/>As soon as she mentioned it, however, the indexer could see that what troubled her was a standardized indexing rule about differential treatment of cross-references. The indexer explained the rule she had used and offered some alternatives. The problem was resolved with a few keystrokes.</p>
</section>
<section title="Group Corrections by Type">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt39"/>Group Corrections by Type</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt40"/>Try to group corrective measures by type. Rather than going through the whole index and marking up, say, all the cross-references the way you want them done, give the indexer an example of what they should look like and ask that they all be altered to fit that pattern. This will be much less work for both the reviewer and the person actually inputting any changes. Indexes are generally constructed along rule-based lines, so many revisions fall into patterns.</p>
</section>
<section title="Give Specific Examples">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt41"/>Give Specific Examples</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt42"/>Vague instructions are not conducive to successful revision. Saying &#x201C;I just cannot find anything&#x201D; does not give the indexer much to go on. Try to give a couple of concrete examples of things you could not find and why you expected to find them. If a text on, say, religious belief in eastern Europe contains a whole chapter on folk beliefs and superstitions, and you cannot find any relevant entries, refer the indexer to that chapter and what terms you looked under.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt43"/>If you find the index does not contain the names of scholars whose work has been cited at length, give the indexer two or three examples of people whose names you expected to find and why. (&#x201C;I know that we agreed you would not pick up every reference in the book, but I thought you would pick up substantive mentions of scholarly work. For instance, Alexander Fodor&#x2019;s research is discussed extensively on pages 60&#x2013;63, and there are specific references to Megan Bang&#x2019;s field work throughout Chapter 9.&#x201D;) By giving specific examples, you can allow the indexer to see systemic problems to fix, rather than merely expressing a general dissatisfaction that is hard to ameliorate.</p>
</section>
<section title="Take Care When Marking Up the File">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt44"/>Take Care When Marking Up the File</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt45"/>Many people find it easier to think with a red pencil in hand, literally or metaphorically. Getting into the index file and marking it up is the easiest way for them to see what they want done. However, please do not make half of the corrections in the file directly, and then try to turn the rest over to the indexer.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt46"/>Novices to index revision sometimes start out by altering the file as they go along, without keeping track of what they have changed, and part of the way through get exhausted by the process and ask the indexer to do the rest. Unfortunately, this can mean that the revisor has wasted a good deal of time and energy, and will probably expend more trying to explain the changes made so far.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt47"/>Indexers produce a final word processing file for the client, but they do not create the index via that file; they almost invariably use dedicated indexing software, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p112" title="112"/>and changes made to the file by the revisor cannot be easily moved from the edited file back into the data, if at all. Plus, if the changes have not been tracked, nothing short of a line-by-line comparison will find them all.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt48"/>It is much better to provide a list of types of corrections needed, and, if necessary, a properly edited file showing desired alterations to specific entries. Some people still prefer to mark up on paper; indexers can work with that, but remember, you will need to allow time for mailing, and the mark-up will have to be done clearly. A faster option when using paper copy is to fax the material or scan it and attach it to an email.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt49"/>If possible, use the &#x201C;track changes&#x201D; facility that most word-processing systems supply, so that the file can be sent back and forth electronically and is easily readable. That way, even if the revisor&#x2019;s time and patience does run out and the indexer is asked to correct the index along the lines of what has been done so far, at the least the indexer will have a clear idea of what must be done.</p>
</section>
<section title="Get on the Phone">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt50"/>Get on the Phone</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt51"/>Sometimes it is very hard to describe on paper precisely what does not work. Maybe you just need some additional explanation from the indexer for it all to make sense. In that case, do not be afraid to get on the phone. Sometimes talking it over directly will make problems clearer and even make them go away.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Specific Alterations and Corrections">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt52"/>Specific Alterations and Corrections</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt53"/>Pinning down the precise problem with an index can be difficult for those unfamiliar with its particular rules and format, quite apart from the issue of communicating that problem to the indexer. The following topics all have a dualistic purpose: They cover the obvious problem that any good editor or writer can see, and they go a little bit deeper, explaining what precise index-specific problems might be causing them.</p>
<section title="Spelling Errors">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt54"/>Spelling Errors</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt55"/>Everyone who writes or edits has noticed this: You do a spellcheck, but on the final reading some horrid error that should have been obvious has somehow been missed. Indexers are just as prone to these occasional spelling goofs as anyone, and the odd spelling mistake should not cause alarm.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt56"/>An unusual number of such mistakes, however, should trigger some index-specific alarm bells. If the errors are primarily of the sort that should be caught by a good spellcheck program, it may be that the indexer forgot to do a spellcheck. And if the spellcheck was forgotten, what other final checks might the indexer have missed? Suggest to the indexer, &#x201C;When I spot-checked the index I found five common spelling errors in the first column. That seems like a lot. Would you like to run through your final proofing procedures again?&#x201D;</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p113" title="113"/>
<p><a id="pinpt57"/>You might also want to consider the errors and see if the indexer was perhaps using an American dictionary when an English spelling style was requested or vice-versa. In some international publications the indexer may misinterpret which spelling conventions are required.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt58"/>Sometimes the spelling errors are not the sort of thing spellcheck would catch&#x2014;surnames, names of places, unusual terms. Sometimes, on very large projects, editors will have arranged for a special spellcheck dictionary or a file of standardized spellings for words with variants. If such a thing exists, indexers should get a copy, but otherwise they will expect to follow usage in the book.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt59"/>Nowadays books may be published with multiple spelling conventions, especially if they are multi-authored, and the indexer may choose to use one of those alternative spellings that the reviewer has not thought of. If that is not the case, however, and there are lots of these sorts of spelling errors, it is reasonable for the reviewer to ask the indexer to do another final pass to verify spellings.</p>
</section>
<section title="Style Issues">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt60"/>Style Issues</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt61"/>The subject matter of the index may be fine, but it may not look the way you think an index should look. Did you give the indexer a style guide or a sample index to follow? Without guidance, indexers have to make their own choices about how to style the index, and there are many perfectly acceptable ways to present index entries. (See <a href="chapter004.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> for more on index style and formatting choices.)</p>
<p><a id="pinpt62"/>Fortunately, most stylistic items are set programmatically, and the indexer should be able to adjust them to the look you want pretty quickly. However, if you did give the indexer some style preferences and they just have not been followed, it may indicate that the indexer has been a bit careless in other matters and that you need to check the index carefully.</p>
</section>
<section title="Pagination">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt63"/>Pagination</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt64"/>Pagination seems to be a pretty hard-and-fast topic. Either something is on pages 20&#x2013;25, or it is not. In fact, that is not quite true. Reasonable people can differ on where exactly they think a topic starts and stops.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt65"/>Some authors write in very neatly defined chunks that lend themselves to the use of headings, and if a section of text is entitled &#x201C;Charlemagne&#x2019;s Benedictine Reforms,&#x201D; information about how Charlemagne enforced the Benedictine rule in eighth-century monasteries starts where that topic heading starts and ends when it ends.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt66"/>Other writers, however, are far more discursive and may foreshadow that subject at the end of the previous section, and tie it into the next topic in the following section. Some people want to paginate an entry for such a text strictly by the topic heads, as it gives the user an obvious starting point when moving from index to text. Others believe that it is important to pick up those &#x201C;fade in&#x201D; and &#x201C;fade out&#x201D; <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p114" title="114"/>paragraphs, perhaps following on previous or subsequent pages from the specific section in question. Still others make a different judgment call in each case, depending on whether they feel the foreshadowing and tie-in text contain substantive or otherwise unfindable information.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt67"/>If the indexer&#x2019;s pagination seems just slightly off to you, this may be one reason why (and nobody&#x2019;s fault)&#x2014;you may be thinking about pagination somewhat differently from the indexer. If the entries seem to be consistently one or two pages off, there is the scary but unfortunately not entirely unheard of possibility that the indexer got a version of the text that is not the final pagination (the fault of the person who supplied the text).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt68"/>If that is the case, the indexer can repaginate the index if provided with the proper pages, but whoever commissioned the index should expect to pay for it. Fortunately, indexing software allows the indexer to sort the index in page order and make the corrections more swiftly than anyone else.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt69"/>If the pagination appears to be off in an inconsistent way (for example, 16&#x2013;30 for 160&#x2013;30; 75 for 76; 8&#x2013;10 for material on pages 23&#x2013;24), these are more likely to be mistakes made by the indexer, and the indexer should fix them at no additional charge.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt70"/>Pagination errors are quite easy to make and not so easy to check, and most indexes probably have a handful. If there seem to be rather a lot of them, however, the reviewer should go back to the indexer, explain how many have been found (give some examples), and ask her to do a page check. Professional indexers can use their software to sort the index in page order and then perform a page-by-page verification of the locators.</p>
</section>
<section title="Wording of Entries">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt71"/>Wording of Entries</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt72"/>Authors and editors sometimes have trouble with the wording of index entries. Often this is an issue with only a few entries, easily rewritten. But if this problem pervades an index generally, you will get a better revision of such entries by classifying the problems. Ask yourself a few key questions.</p>
<p><em><a id="pinpt73"/>Are the entries too long and involved?</em> For example, let us say an index on foreign policy and religious belief in the early 20th century has the recurring subhead of &#x201C;Christian anti-internationalism directed against liberalism, modernist theology, and League of Nations by.&#x201D; In the context of this book, however, the definition of Christian anti-internationalism includes hostility to the precepts of liberalism and modernist theology, and to the ratification of the League Covenant by the U.S. Senate. &#x201C;Christian anti-internationalism of&#x201D; is a lot shorter and just as self-explanatory.</p>
<p><em><a id="pinpt74"/>Is there some persistent problem with the grammar of the entries?</em> The index has entries such as:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt75"/>Lloyd George, David</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt76"/>waterworks</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p115" title="115"/>
<p><a id="pinpt77"/>Does this refer to Lloyd George&#x2019;s personal waterworks? To his views on waterworks as a public utility? A preposition inserted to indicate the relationship between the main entry and the subentry would be helpful here.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt78"/>Alternatively, you may get a series of entries under a main heading, all beginning with the same preposition. You may feel that it looks odd and is really unnecessary. Remember the indexer may have a good reason for choosing a specific type of phrasing, though, so ask why the entries have been structured that way and whether the rules can be changed.</p>
<p><em><a id="pinpt79"/>Are the phrasings awkward?</em> Sometimes, to get the most important word to the initial position, indexers have to resort to some fairly twisted constructions. All indexes have a few of them, but in the end they do serve a noble purpose.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt80"/>The term of art for the specific legal language used in contracts is &#x201C;contract language,&#x201D; for instance, but in a book that is entirely about contracts, users are more likely to go to the more specific term of &#x201C;language,&#x201D; so the indexer may reasonably invert the phrase as &#x201C;language of contracts&#x201D; (with perhaps a cross-reference at &#x201C;contract language&#x201D;).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt81"/>If there seem to be a number of unnatural phrasings in the book that do not serve a useful purpose, however, you may want to give the indexer a few examples of ones that trouble you and some possible rewordings that retain an important word as the initial term.</p>
<p><em><a id="pinpt82"/>Are the entries so short as to be cryptic?</em> A main heading &#x201C;bulldozers&#x201D; and a subentry &#x201C;rocks&#x201D; are not too problematic. We all know the connection between bulldozers and rocks. A main entry of &#x201C;bulldozers&#x201D; and a subentry of &#x201C;eggs,&#x201D; however, require some explanation.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt83"/>Alternatively, you may keep finding entries such as &#x201C;dogs&#x201D; in a book on, say, Greek philosophy. Some explanation is required for such an entry to explain how it fits into the index. At the same time, indexes are not there to serve as glossaries. An entry for &#x201C;<em>aischron</em> and <em>kalon</em>&#x201D; is perfectly reasonable, providing the book is not aimed at rank beginners, even if the reviewer does not know what it means. This is a key concept in Greek philosophy. &#x201C;Dogs,&#x201D; on the other hand, comes out of left field as an entry for such a book without some further explanation (&#x201C;dogs, <em>aischron</em> as typified by,&#x201D; for example).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt84"/>Instead of just telling the indexer that the wording of the entries is a problem, specifying the kinds of problems you see with the wording, and giving specific examples, will clarify things for both the reviewer and the indexer and will result in a better revision.</p>
</section>
<section title="Adding/Subtracting Types of Entries">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt85"/>Adding/Subtracting Types of Entries</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt86"/>Indexers tend to make policy decisions about what kind of thing gets indexed (and what does not). If it is something unusual, they will confer with the author or <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p116" title="116"/>editor, but much of the indexing process consists of a series of such decisions, and really, that is the indexer&#x2019;s job.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt87"/>Nevertheless, indexing clients may find material in an index that they did not expect, and they may <em>not</em> find some things they <em>did</em> expect. In a book on a religious or theological topic, the indexer may decide that the audience will want to check biblical citations, so she will include them, either in a separate collation, as an index array, or individually under the names of individual books of the Bible. The author or indexer, however, might feel this is a bit more than anyone will look up. Should they be removed?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt88"/>First, ask yourself if there is a space issue with the index. If there is, taking out these citations might quickly save some lines. If not, ask yourself if these entries are doing any harm. If they are not causing a problem, why remove them? Someone may want to look them up. If you are still unsure, ask the indexer why he or she included them. There may be a good reason for keeping them that you have not thought of.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt89"/>Generally, if you want to remove entries, it is always a good idea to ask the indexer why she created them. Novice reviewers often tend to want to take out multiple points of reference. For instance, indexers producing an entry on &#x201C;farming&#x201D; will invariably double-post or cross-reference it at &#x201C;agriculture.&#x201D; Some reviewers regard this as redundant. Well, it is. Indexes are by their very nature redundant. They are supposed to provide multiple points of entry to the text.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt90"/>Remember the first stage of the review process, where you actually looked up things in the index rather than reading it? Well, what if you had looked for information about agriculture and it had only been under farming? You would not care that it was someplace else. You were not going to read the whole index to find what you wanted. What looks redundant to the reviewer is extremely useful to the reader of the book, who dives into the index on a specific information search and leaves the index with just that one kernel of information.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt91"/>But what if you would like the indexer to add material? For instance, you have written a book on foreign policy from the point of view of Canada. You have included comparisons to other countries, but you cannot find any of them in the index under the country names.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt92"/>Formulate your query about this clearly, categorizing the omission, and give examples. &#x201C;I was looking for information about specific countries other than Canada and I could not find it. For example, I compare the Canadian diplomatic core to that of Britain and Germany in Chapter 6, but I cannot find entries for Britain or Germany. How did you handle the country material?&#x201D;</p>
<p><a id="pinpt93"/>The indexer may have developed a scheme in which countries are listed as subheads under foreign policy topics but not as main entries&#x2014;not that you have to stick to that scheme. It would be perfectly reasonable to ask the indexer to add main entries for the countries in this instance. But indexers usually follow a system in <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p117" title="117"/>what they do, so they often have good reasons for the choices that they make. It is always worth a query.</p>
</section>
<section title="Cross-Referencing">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt94"/>Cross-Referencing</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt95"/>Indexers routinely run programmatic and editorial checks on the cross-references, so if an entry at &#x201C;Cyclones&#x201D; tells you to &#x201C;<em>See also</em> Hurricanes,&#x201D; you should be able to go to the H&#x2019;s and find information under that term.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt96"/>In the course of reviewing the index, a diligent revisor will always remember to check a handful of cross-references. If you cannot follow them across the index&#x2014;if you go to &#x201C;Hurricanes&#x201D; and find nothing there, for instance&#x2014;you need to speak to the indexer about it.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt97"/>Do so by giving the indexer some examples of what you expected versus what you got. In the process of spelling it out, you may find that you just did not do what the cross-reference in fact told you to do. If this appears to be the case, and it is not an isolated instance, try to work out and then explain to the indexer what is tripping you up. It may very likely be a stylistic issue the indexer can easily adjust.</p>
</section>
<section title="Multiple Points of Entry">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt98"/>Multiple Points of Entry</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt99"/>We mentioned earlier that one of the main purposes of an index is to provide multiple points of entry to the text. If reviewers have had difficulty finding material, it may be that the indexer needs to add more cross-references and double-postings at alternative terms. Indexers can sometimes follow the text a little too closely and not add enough external terms, especially if a book is intended for multiple audiences.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt100"/>One co-author of this book once indexed a weighty legal tome that seemed aimed at specialist practitioners. The editor, on reviewing the index, told her that the book was in fact heavily used in prison libraries and as a result required many more general terms than were included (&#x201C;firings. <em>See</em> termination of employment,&#x201D; for instance). Once informed about this additional audience, the indexer was able to quickly go through the book and add terms that ordinary people, rather than lawyers, use.</p>
<p class="space-break"><a id="pinpt101"/>There will be some indexes that are just bad. They cannot be fixed and should be quietly smothered in file thirteen. But that is a rare case. Most indexers with professional experience and training produce wonderful work, and judicious review can almost always make that work a little bit better.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt102"/>Every year ASI gives the Wilson Award to an exemplary index. The winner gives a speech at the annual conference, and almost all of them have stressed that the care, interest, and thoughtful commentary of an editor or author was one thing that moved the index from good to great.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt103"/>Index review may seem like a daunting task, but with attention to the proper purpose and function of indexes, the reviewer can make a valuable contribution to the overall usability of any text.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p118" title="118"/>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
