<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p11" title="11"/>
<section title="Numbers and Types of Indexes" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-2"><strong>Chapter 2</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-2"><strong>Numbers and Types of Indexes</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>This chapter looks at two basic issues associated with indexes. First, we look at the pros and cons of having more than one index associated with a specific text. Then we explore the various types of indexes, which come in more flavors than just a typical name/subject index.</p>
<section title="Numbers of Indexes">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-8"><strong><a id="pinpt4"/>NUMBERS OF INDEXES</strong></h1>
<section title="Single vs. Multiple Indexes">
<h2 class="level2a"><strong><a id="pinpt5"/>Single vs. Multiple Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt6"/>The specific index or indexes used in any given context should be determined by the nature of the material being indexed, what users will be looking for, and the types of indexes that other similar publications provide. In general, it is preferable to use a single index to a document or document collection. As the NISO technical report on indexes (NISO-TR02-1997) notes: &#x201C;Unified indexes should generally be preferred&#x2026;.&#x201D; It goes on to say, however, that:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pq-noindent"><a id="pinpt7"/>Separate indexes may also be desirable when it is awkward to assimilate verbal terms (using natural language words) with non-verbal terms, such as chemical formulae or patent numbers, or terms in different writing systems, such as the Roman alphabet and non-Roman scripts.</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>Clearly, separate indexes are merited when the principal of organization differs in two or more kinds of material. For example, geographic indexes are often classified by region, country, state, administrative district, city, and neighborhood, while a general subject index contains a single alphabetical list of main headings. An index to a car parts catalog would generally be ordered numerically by part number.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>While multiple indexes have inherent difficulties (as we explain in the next section), there are a number of instances where multiple indexes are the norm. Legal volumes, for example, often contain a case and statute index that is separate from the subject index, where the flow of the subject index is not broken up or interrupted by long lists of names or statute numbers. News publications may have separate indexes for people and companies in addition to a subject index. According to Enid Zafran, a long-time indexer (private communication, June 23, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p12" title="12"/>2007), major texts in the field of psychology traditionally have a separate scholar name index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/>In cases where multiple indexes are used, it is important to clearly indicate to the reader that multiple indexes exist. Index headnotes should explain the scope of the index and refer readers to the additional indexes. Running heads may be used to specify the type of index, e.g., Name Index, rather than just the standard &#x201C;Index&#x201D; heading.</p>
</section>
<section title="Problems with Multiple Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt11"/>Problems with Multiple Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt12"/>When considering whether to use a single index or multiple indexes, editors should be aware that multiple indexes create significant usability problems. That is, users may not be aware of the other indexes available to them and may thus fail to find significant relevant information. If users are aware of the existence of multiple indexes, their information search becomes significantly less efficient, as they must now search in two or more places for relevant information.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt13"/>In addition to the problem of finding and using multiple indexes, the use of explanatory inter-index cross-references may be necessary. For example, where a text uses separate author and subject indexes, the following pointers might be necessary:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt14"/>Piaget, Jean</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt15"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph2"><em><a id="pinpt16"/>See also</em> Piaget, Jean <em>in author index</em></p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt17"/>and</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt18"/>Piaget, Jean</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt19"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph2"><em><a id="pinpt20"/>See also</em> Piaget, Jean <em>in subject index</em></p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt21"/>Such cross-references complicate users&#x2019; search, making them first look for the location of the other index, then search within that index to find another relevant entry. A much simpler solution would be a single index with both names and subjects:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt22"/>Truman, Harry S.</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt23"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt24"/>administration of</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt25"/>&#x2026;</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p13" title="13"/>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Types of Indexes">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-9"><strong><a id="pinpt26"/>TYPES OF INDEXES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt27"/>Most of us are familiar with the standard back-of-book or journal index, one that combines access to people, places, things, and subjects/topics in a single alphabetical listing. However, there are many different types of indexes that can appear in publications, depending on the specific nature of the text being indexed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt28"/>In addition to basic subject indexes, some other possible index types include:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt29"/>Geographic indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt30"/>Name indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt31"/>Legal case indexes (usually called table of cases)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt32"/>Title indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt33"/>Scientific name indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt34"/>First-line indexes (for poetry)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt35"/>Author indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt36"/>Chemical indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt37"/>Numerical indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt38"/>Melodic indexes</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt39"/>Citation indexes</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt40"/>Each of these types of indexes will be discussed in detail.</p>
<section title="Geographic Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt41"/>Geographic Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt42"/>Usually appearing in conjunction with maps, atlases, or guidebooks, geographic indexes generally consist of an alphabetic list of geographic places. For maps or atlases, locators usually consist of map coordinates. For multistate or multination maps, entries are usually organized first by the largest geographic unit, moving through smaller units in turn. In the following example, taken from the <em>Times Atlas of World History</em> (London: Times Books Limited, 1979), locators refer to page/map number:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt43"/>Aachen, 107/3, 212/1, 253/3</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt44"/>Aergau, 183/1</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt45"/>Aerhus, 101/2, 116/2</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt46"/>Abadan, 285/1</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt47"/>Abarshahr, 79/3</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt48"/>Abasgia, 113/1</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p14" title="14"/>
<p><a id="pinpt49"/>This selection from the index to the 1993 edition of the Rand McNally <em>Road Atlas</em> also demonstrates the use of special typography (boldface) to differentiate counties from cities within the same index. A headnote (see <a href="chapter003.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>) should be used to explain typeface meaning and locator construction.</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt50"/>Maryland</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt51"/>Aberdeen, B-15</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt52"/>Abingdon, C-15</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt53"/>Acokeek, G-12</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt54"/>Adelphi, D-7</p>
<p class="pqph2"><strong><a id="pinpt55"/>Allegheny,</strong> B-5</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt56"/>Annapolis, C-14</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt57"/>Annapolis Jct., D-13</p>
<p class="pqph2"><strong><a id="pinpt58"/>Ann Arundel,</strong> L-13</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt59"/>Note the use of grid identifiers, here row letter and column number, as locators.</p>
</section>
<section title="Name Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt60"/>Name Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt61"/>Separate name indexes are used only in those cases where adding the names into the subject index would significantly reduce its usability. The access mechanism to the 1,000-page <em>London Encyclopedia</em> (London: Macmillan London, 1983), for example, includes a &#x201C;people&#x201D; index, as well as a &#x201C;general&#x201D; index, which comprises streets, buildings, and other structures.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt62"/>Name indexes are generally alphabetized by last name, then by first name:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt63"/>Pallitser, A., 814</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt64"/>Palmer, E. W., 64</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt65"/>Palmer, Frederick, 673</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt66"/>Palmer, George, 342</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt67"/>Palmer, H., 30</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt68"/>Palmer, Sir Henry, 456</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt69"/>Palmer, James, 916</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt70"/>Palmer, John, 617</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt71"/>Titles or other honorifics are generally ignored when sorting names. Frequently the index drops titles, as they create complications as people get promoted to a higher military rank or otherwise change titles. Unless a client insists on titles, it is probably preferable to omit them.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt72"/>Genealogical indexes, consisting of names only, often use last names as headings, with first names arranged under those as subheadings. The preceding name list, from the <em>London Encyclopedia,</em> would appear as follows in a genealogical index:</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p15" title="15"/><div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt73"/>Pallitser</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt74"/>A., 814</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt75"/>Palmer</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt76"/>E. W., 64</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt77"/>Frederick, 673</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt78"/>George, 342</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt79"/>H., 30</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt80"/>Sir Henry, 456</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt81"/>James, 916</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt82"/>John, 617</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt83"/>Often, especially in historical texts or other material dealing with obscure individuals, only last names may be known. Or it may be that two individuals discussed in the text have the same name. In both cases it is usual to include a qualifier so that readers can properly identify each individual in the index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt84"/>Qualifiers may also be used, especially in indexes to biographies, so that readers can identify the relationship to the person who is the subject of the book. Two instances&#x2014;name identification and name differentiation&#x2014;appear in the following extract, headings taken from the index to <em>The Life of an Unknown</em> (New York: Columbia University Press, 2001). (Here, &#x201C;P&#x201D; refers to Louis-Fran&#x00E7;ois Pinagot, the subject of the biography.)</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt85"/>Pinagot, Eug&#x00E8;ne (P&#x2019;s son)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt86"/>Pinagot, Evremont (P&#x2019;s son)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt87"/>Pinagot, F&#x00E9;lice-Estelle (P&#x2019;s granddaughter)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt88"/>Pinagot, Fran&#x00E7;oise (P&#x2019;s aunt)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt89"/>Pinagot, Fran&#x00E7;oise (P&#x2019;s daughter)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt90"/>Pinagot, H&#x00E9;loise (daughter of P&#x2019;s cousin Angelique)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt91"/>Pinagot, Isa&#x00EF;e (daughter of P&#x2019;s cousin Etienne)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt92"/>Pinagot, Isa&#x00EF;e (P&#x2019;s granddaughter)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt93"/>Pinagot, Jacques (P&#x2019;s father)</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt94"/>Pinagot, Jacques (P&#x2019;s grandfather)</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt95"/>When necessary, birth/death dates or occupation may be used as distinguishing qualifiers.</p>
</section>
<section title="Legal Case Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt96"/>Legal Case Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt97"/>Indexes to legal texts (also called tables of cases) present special problems. These are discussed in detail in another book published by the American Society of Indexers, <em>Indexing Specialties: Law</em> (Medford, NJ: Information Today, Inc., 2001). Only a brief overview is provided here.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p16" title="16"/>
<p><a id="pinpt98"/>In general, tables of cases should be used in legal texts or other documents that cover a significant number of legal cases. Standard form in legal case indexes for a main heading is A v. B, where A is the plaintiff and B the defendant. Case names may be italicized if they are included as part of a regular subject index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt99"/>When creating a table of cases, the indexer should enquire whether full citations are required, as they entail considerable work because of their length:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt100"/>Bob&#x2019;s Disc. Furniture, Inc. v. Bob&#x2019;s Disc. Off-Price Superstores, Inc., 353 F. Supp. 2d 118 (D. Me. 2005)</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt101"/>or</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt102"/>Yassine, Inc. v. Bates Communication, Inc., 163 Ohio App. 3d 413, 2005 Ohio 5019, 837 N.E.2d 1272, 2005 Ohio App. LEXIS 4532 (Lucas County 2005), <em>app. denied,</em> 108 Ohio St. 3d 1474, 2006 Ohio 665, 842 N.E.2d 1053, 2006 Ohio LEXIS 460 (2006)</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt103"/>Alphabetization of legal indexes is first by plaintiff and then by defendant if necessary for disambiguation of otherwise identical entries.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt104"/>The legal case index to Jay M. Feinman&#x2019;s <em>Law 101: Everything You Need to Know about the American Legal System</em> includes these entries:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt105"/>Raich v. Gonzalez</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt106"/>Rasul v. Bush</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt107"/>Regents of the University of California v. Bakke</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt108"/>Rhode Island v. Innis</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt109"/>Roe v. Wade</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt110"/>Romer v. Evans</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt111"/>Rosenberger v. Rector of the University of Virginia</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt112"/>Rylands v. Fletcher</em></p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt113"/>In addition to a legal case index, a subject index will also be included in a legal text, providing access to specific legal concepts. Locators for legal texts may be page numbers or paragraph/section numbers if those are used throughout the text.</p>
</section>
<section title="Title Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt114"/>Title Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt115"/>It may be useful to add an index devoted solely to titles in texts that discuss a number of works of art (whether literature, music, or fine arts). To be most helpful to readers, title indexes should include the full title of the work of art, with cross-references from the work&#x2019;s popular title or nickname. As with all works of art, standard practice dictates including the creator&#x2019;s name as a qualifier.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p17" title="17"/><div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt116"/>La Gioconda.</em> See <em>Mona Lisa</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt117"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt118"/>Mona Lisa</em> (<em>La Gioconda,</em> Leonardo da Vinci)</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt119"/>or</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt120"/>Pique dame.</em> See <em>The Queen of Spades</em></p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt121"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><em><a id="pinpt122"/>The Queen of Spades</em> (<em>Pique dame,</em> Tchaikovsky)</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt123"/>Library catalogs often include access to information through a title index, in addition to author and subject indexes.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt124"/>In especially large indexes, the indexer may prefer to divide information first by genre. The title index to a composer&#x2019;s works, for example, might be categorized into chamber music, choral works, operas, orchestral works, and solo instrumental works. However, if the reader is unaware what category a specific work falls into, such a division may significantly hinder information finding. Careful consideration should be given as to whether to use genres as a way of organizing a title index.</p>
</section>
<section title="Scientific Name Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt125"/>Scientific Name Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt126"/>Especially in dense scientific texts, it may be helpful to the reader to create a separate index of scientific names. Scientific name indexes may consist entirely of scientific names for plants or animals or may contain common names as well. In the latter case it is useful to double-post entries under both the common and scientific names, with the alternate form of the term given as a qualifier (in parentheses).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt127"/>In another arrangement, scientific and common names may both be separately indexed. This is the case, for example, with the index to <em>Birds of North America, Revised and Updated: A Guide to Field Identification</em> (New York: St. Martin&#x2019;s Press, 2001).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt128"/>In addition, where multiple species are discussed in a single text, it is customary to use the genus as the heading with the species as subheadings, as this excerpt from the <em>Birds of North America</em> demonstrates. Note that this same format is also used with common names:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt129"/>Cormorant, Brandt&#x2019;s</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt130"/>Double-crested</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt131"/>Great</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt132"/>Neotropic</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt133"/>Pelagic</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt134"/>Red-faced</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p18" title="18"/><div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt135"/>Corvidae</p>
<p class="pqph2"><em><a id="pinpt136"/>Corvus brachyrhynchos</em></p>
<p class="pqph3"><em><a id="pinpt137"/>caurinus</em></p>
<p class="pqph3"><em><a id="pinpt138"/>corax</em></p>
<p class="pqph3"><em><a id="pinpt139"/>cryptoleucus</em></p>
<p class="pqph3"><em><a id="pinpt140"/>imparatus</em></p>
<p class="pqph3"><em><a id="pinpt141"/>ossifragus</em></p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt142"/>Note here also the standard format for scientific names (<em>Corvus brachyrhynchos</em>), in which the genus is capitalized and the species given in lower case.</p>
</section>
<section title="First-Line Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt143"/>First-Line Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt144"/>First-line indexes are often found in collections of poetry. They allow readers to find a particular poem by means of the first line.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt145"/>In the case of first-line indexes, alphabetization differs slightly from most indexes: Initial articles and prepositions are not ignored in determining alphabetical order. For example, the first-line index to the 1960 complete edition of Emily Dickinson poems (Thomas H. Johnson, ed., Boston: Little, Brown and Company) includes the following entries:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt146"/>A bee his burnished carriage, 1339</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt147"/>A bird came down the walk, 328</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt148"/>A burdock clawed my gown, 229</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt149"/>A cup of lead across the sky, 1649</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt150"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt151"/>An honest tear, 1192</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt152"/>An hour is a sea, 825</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt153"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt154"/>Of bronze and blaze, 290</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt155"/>Of Brussels it was not, 602</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt156"/>Of consciousness her awful mate, 894</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt157"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt158"/>The fact that earth is heaven, 1408</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt159"/>The fairest home I ever knew, 1423</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt160"/>The farthest thunder that I heard, 1581</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt161"/>It should be noted that in this instance, the locators are not page numbers, but poem numbers. Also, this volume interestingly includes a subject index to the poems, which contains entries for &#x201C;names mentioned in poems&#x201D; and &#x201C;places mentioned in poems.&#x201D;</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p19" title="19"/>
<p><a id="pinpt162"/>A first-line index is also useful in song collections, and such an index is often found in hymnals.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt163"/>Indexes of first lines are generally flat lists, that is, there are no subheadings, as the first line of text is the identifying element in the index.</p>
</section>
<section title="Author Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt164"/>Author Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt165"/>Author indexes are regularly found in journals or article collections, volumes of essays, or any other text collection that brings together relatively short works of many different authors.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt166"/>As in general name indexes, author indexes usually present the authors&#x2019; names in inverted order (last name first) and are alphabetized first by last name, then by first name or initial.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt167"/>If necessary, qualifiers such as birth and death dates should be used to distinguish between authors of the same name.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt168"/>Subheadings generally consist of the particular articles or essays that the author has written that are available in the collection being indexed. If the index is to multiple periodicals, the author index will also include the specific journal citation (i.e., volume, issue number, date, etc.) that an article appeared in, so as to enable proper retrieval.</p>
</section>
<section title="Chemical Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt169"/>Chemical Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt170"/>When the subject of an index is limited to or consists primarily of chemical names, it is customary to create a separate chemical index. In the case of a chemical index, all numerical and letter prefixes to the main chemical name, as well as internal numbers, are ignored in alphabetization except when needed for disambiguation of otherwise identical entries.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt171"/>The following example taken from the Haz-Map Index of the National Institute of Medicine at the National Institutes of Health (hazmap.nlm.nih.gov/cgibin/hazmap&#x005F;list?tbl&#x003D;TblAgents&#x0026;alpha&#x003D;B) shows the typical arrangement of a chemical index:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt172"/>Buclosamide</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt173"/>Bupirimate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt174"/>1,3-Butadiene</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt175"/>n-Butane</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt176"/>1,4-Butanediol dimethacrylate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt177"/>2-Butoxyethanol</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt178"/>2-Butoxyethyl acetate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt179"/>Butterfly</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt180"/>n-Butyl acetate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt181"/>sec-Butyl acetate</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p20" title="20"/>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt182"/>tert-Butyl acetate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt183"/>n-Butyl alcohol</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt184"/>tert-Butyl chromate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt185"/>Butyl dichlorophenoxyacetate</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt186"/>n-Butyl glycidyl ether</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt187"/>tert-Butyl hydroperoxide</p>
</div>
</section>
<section title="Numerical Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt188"/>Numerical Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt189"/>To provide access to information that is primarily numerical in nature, a numerical index may be compiled. Typical numerical indexes include statutory sections (e.g., U.S. Code or Bankruptcy Code), patent number indexes, contract number indexes, and parts number indexes.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt190"/>To facilitate search within a written numerical index, such indexes are presented in numerical order, from the lowest to the highest number.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt191"/>Occasionally, the identifiers may be formed from a combination of letters and numbers in a standard format, such as xx-000x0x, where &#x201C;x&#x201D; is a letter and &#x201C;0&#x201D; is a number. In that case, ordering of the identifier should be done by considering each digit of the number in turn, comparing first digits, then second digits, etc., until the appropriate order of items is determined.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt192"/>For example, the following is a selection from an index to ACDelco vehicle parts (see <a href="http://www.competitiveautoparts.com/spreadsheets/acdelcosparkplugs.xls">www.competitiveautoparts.com/spreadsheets/acdelcosparkplugs.xls</a>), in this case oil filters and spark plugs:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt193"/>PF47</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt194"/>PF52</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt195"/>PFL400A</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt196"/>R42LTS</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt197"/>R42LTSM</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt198"/>R42T</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt199"/>R43</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt200"/>R43S</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt201"/>R43T</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt202"/>R43TS</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt203"/>R43TS6</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt204"/>R43TSK</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt205"/>R44T</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt206"/>R45TSX</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt207"/>R45XLS</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt208"/>R45XLS6</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt209"/>R46SZ</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p21" title="21"/>
<p><a id="pinpt210"/>Notice that for each digit, numbers are &#x201C;alphabetized&#x201D; before letters.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt211"/>In another example, the U.S. federal government uses a two-part identifier for forms: The first part of the form number is a two- or three-digit letter identifier that indicates the issuing department and the second part is the form number within that department. The form number itself may be a combination of numbers and letters. See the following (partial) list of form numbers from the U.S. Department of Labor (<a href="http://www.forms.gov/bgfPortal/openPage.jsp?fileId&#x003D;0&#x0026;URL&#x003D;http://www.dol.gov/libraryforms/index.asp">www.forms.gov/bgfPortal/openPage.jsp?fileId&#x003D;0&#x0026;URL&#x003D;http://www.dol.gov/libraryforms/index.asp</a>):</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt212"/>DOL-2000-7</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt213"/>DOL-2000-38</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt214"/>DOL-4000-9</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt215"/>DOL-9035CP</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt216"/>DOL-CA-10</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt217"/>DOL-CA-1108</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt218"/>DOL-CA-12</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt219"/>DOL-CA-17</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt220"/>DOL-CA-2</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt221"/>DOL-CA-20</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt222"/>DOL-CA-2231</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt223"/>DOL-CA-35</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt224"/>DOL-CC-4</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt225"/>DOL-CM-1093</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt226"/>DOL-CM-1159</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt227"/>DOL-DOLRNO-1</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt228"/>DOL-EEOICP EE-1</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt229"/>DOL-EEOICP EE-2</p>
</div>
</section>
<section title="Melodic Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt230"/>Melodic Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt231"/>Although there are numerous melodic indexes, especially to the works of individual classical composers such as Bach or Haydn, there is still no single established system of melodic indexing. We will discuss several possible systems here and comment on their significant drawbacks. In general, all rely on using some form of transcribing a relatively few initial notes (often eight) of the full melody. This usually serves sufficiently to disambiguate and identify specific works:</p>
<ol class="olindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><em><a id="pinpt232"/>Numerical musical index &#x2013;</em> Use the number 1 to represent the tonic note of the melody, then use the appropriate numbers to identify the first eight (or so) notes of the melody. The melodies thus transcribed are then &#x201C;alphabetized,&#x201D; or in this case, put in numerical order by first note, then by second note, etc. One drawback of this <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p22" title="22"/>method is that the listener may remember the start of the melody, but may not recognize the tonic note, and thus ends up looking for the wrong sequence.</li>
<li class="litop"><em><a id="pinpt233"/>Transposed letter index &#x2013;</em> Transpose the tune as if it were in C major or C minor, then use the appropriate letters (A&#x2013;G) to identify the melody. Alphabetize on the first letter, then the second, etc.</li>
<li class="litop"><em><a id="pinpt234"/>Direct letter index &#x2013;</em> Transcribe the melody as written. Then alphabetize the melodies beginning with all that start with the letter &#x201C;A,&#x201D; then alphabetize on the second note: A-A, A-B, A-C, etc. Obviously, this method presents a significant problem, namely, that if a single melody has been given in a transposed edition, either by the composer or an arranger, then the two melodies will start on different notes and thus be considered two different works, making identification difficult for the listener.</li></ol>
<p><a id="pinpt235"/>Most melodic indexes ignore octave differences. Thus middle C and the C above middle C (usually given in musical notation as &#x201C;c&#x201D;) are both identified as &#x201C;C.&#x201D; This may conflate two melodies that contain notes that are actually in different octaves, making it difficult for the listener to find the specific melody.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt236"/>In a review of <em>The Greig-Duncan Folk Song Collection</em> (<em>Musical Traditions</em> magazine, <a href="http://www.mustrad.org.uk/reviews/greigdun.htm">www.mustrad.org.uk/reviews/greigdun.htm</a>, March 13, 2007) the unnamed reviewer notes these problems with the musical index:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pq-noindent"><a id="pinpt237"/>It is a great pity that no standard method of melodic indexing has been established. Personally I find Charles Gore&#x2019;s system in his invaluable <em>The Scottish Fiddle Music Index</em> the most accurate and revealing. It is based on Breandan Breathnach&#x2019;s scheme, and recognises only on-beat notes and represents them by numbers, but it does rely on identifying which is the key note, represented in the index by the number 1.</p>
<p class="pq-indent"><a id="pinpt238"/>The system used by Fleischmann in <em>Sources of Irish Traditional Music</em> avoids identifying the key note but assumes each tune starts on the note G. This is fine if you have a stable first note, but this is frequently not the case; and the system of indicating in which octave a note lies is confusing. Katherine Campbell&#x2019;s method of entering repeated notes is economical, allowing more of the shape of the tune to show through and thus avoiding a flaw in Fleischmann&#x2019;s method: but she has not specified the direction of octave leaps, and leaps in excess of the octave are not indicated at all.</p>
<p class="pq-indent"><a id="pinpt239"/>The old system of Barlow and Morgenstern&#x2019;s <em>A Dictionary of Musical Themes</em> was set up for Classical Music, for which it works tolerably well. In this system you mentally transpose your phrase into the key of C <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p23" title="23"/>(major or minor), without necessarily establishing the key of the tune as a whole. The method employed here is similar to this last. It is that of entering the first eight notes as though the melody were in the key of C. However, Campbell&#x2019;s note describing how to use the Melodic Index does not mention that minor key tunes should be thought of as in C minor&#x2026;. Many people looking for an archetypal minor key on the white notes of a keyboard will automatically think of A minor.</p>
<p class="pq-indent"><a id="pinpt240"/>The problem is that the researcher is probably not starting with the tune as it appears here, but with some unidentified tune the key of which (if any) is not immediately apparent &#x2026;</p>
<p class="pq-indent"><a id="pinpt241"/>The Melodic Index suffers from another difficulty in that it includes up-beats which are not indicated as such, and whose presence or absence in traditional music is unpredictable. Fleischmann enters tunes with and without their up-beats&#x2014;a distinct advantage. For example, taking the above tune, even if you know it has an up-beat for the initial word &#x201C;And,&#x201D; it is quite likely that the version in your head has only the first of the two notes given to it in Greig-Duncan, so you might be searching for it as Bflat Eflat F G F Eflat F G. In other words, this Melodic Index is a rough tool.</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt242"/>Because a musical index is often a scholarly work in and of itself, the editor will generally determine the specific style of transcription to be used in the index. Editors should be aware, however, of the various systems of musical indexing possible and their inherent problems.</p>
</section>
<section title="Citation Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt243"/>Citation Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt244"/>Citation indexes provide access to information in the references of a document. Most often citation indexes are based on citations of scholarly work in the sciences or the humanities. Psychology books typically have separate name indexes to accommodate citations. Citation indexes may also be found in other fields. For example, patent citation indexes reflect how often a specific patent is cited in later patents.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt245"/>One of the earliest and still current citation indexes is the <em>Science Citation Index</em>, now published by Thomson Scientific and available online as the Web of Science.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt246"/>By using citation indexes, users can follow citations backward in time, starting with the citations contained in a specific article or document. Users can also discover which articles written after the target document cite that document.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p24" title="24"/>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
