<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p89" title="89"/>
<section title="Hiring an Indexer" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-7"><strong>Chapter 7</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-7"><strong>Hiring an Indexer</strong></a></h1>
<section title="Using a Professional Indexer">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-34"><strong><a id="pinpt3"/>USING A PROFESSIONAL INDEXER</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt4"/>Some authors may be tempted to save money by employing a family member or a graduate student (for scholarly works) to prepare the index to their text. Others may even consider writing the index themselves. In both cases, this is usually a bad idea. It is rare for anyone to have the native ability to create a good index. Usually, it takes considerable training, either through a course or course plus mentorship, to understand how best to build the structure of a good index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>In addition, professional indexers get better with experience. After having written dozens, if not hundreds, of indexes, they will have already faced most of the complexities to be found in any text. They will have an arsenal of techniques at hand that allow them to focus on the text itself, rather than on strictly technical matters.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt6"/>Members of professional indexing societies, such as the American Society of Indexers (ASI), are also able to take advantage of continuing education programs through local chapters, as well as at annual national conferences. Local and regional chapters often have regular peer review sessions that help individual indexers continue to improve their skills.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>Experienced professional indexers generally work faster and smarter than new or first-time indexers and can more easily deal with complicated and challenging texts. They may also have specific subject specialties that allow them to more quickly understand texts in those areas.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>Family members, graduate students, and authors themselves rarely have experience in the two basic skills that all professional indexers use: concept identification and term selection. This means that professional indexers can more readily separate out passing mentions and other nonindexable material from relevant concepts that should be captured in an index. Professional indexers also have experience creating appropriate wordings for headings and subheadings to capture the concepts of the text. Writing in the clear, concise, and unambiguous manner necessary for an index is not a skill acquired overnight.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>Although some say that authors are the best indexers of their material, this is generally not the case. In addition to not having indexing skills in their writing repertoire, authors often lack the objectivity necessary to properly consider and index their text in a manner most useful to the reader. Authors (and, indeed, most new indexers) tend to over-index a text, including items that do not contain substantive information, thus cluttering the index with irrelevant entries.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p90" title="90"/>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/><a href="chapter003.xhtml">Chapter 3</a> discussed the characteristics of a good index. Professional indexers are used to thinking about those characteristics continually and can generally be counted on to produce indexes that reflect best practices in indexing techniques.</p>
</section>
<section title="Finding an Indexer">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-35"><strong><a id="pinpt11"/>FINDING AN INDEXER</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt12"/>There are several resources available to help editors find indexers. Most publishers have resumes on file or databases of trusted freelancers developed over time. Editors may also rely on word-of-mouth referrals from other editors, authors, or packagers. Additional resources include the American Society of Indexers (ASI), which offers the online Indexer Locator and Jobs Hotline; publishing industry directories such as <em>Literary Market Place</em> (<em>LMP</em>), which lists dozens of indexers (refer to <em>LMP</em>&#x2019;s Editorial Services Activity Index); and Internet searches. Additional detail on some of these methods and resources follows.</p>
<section title="Personal Referrals">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt13"/>Personal Referrals</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt14"/>Personal referrals are a good guide to finding competent indexers. Other editors or authors can suggest indexers they have worked with successfully. When seeking personal referrals, questions to ask include:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt15"/>Does the indexer have a subject specialty?</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt16"/>Was the indexer easy to work with? Did the indexer answer emails or phone calls in a timely manner?</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt17"/>Were you pleased with the index submitted? Was it accurate and complete? Were there any problems with file formats or transmissions?</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt18"/>Did the indexer meet the deadline?</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt19"/>Book packagers frequently offer indexing as one of their services. The packager will subcontract the job to an indexer with whom it works on a regular basis. You deal with the packager who basically produces the index for you by doing quality checks and making style decisions.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt20"/>Books themselves can guide editors to indexers. Look for a book with a great index in the appropriate subject area, and then find out who indexed it by contacting the publisher or author.</p>
</section>
<section title="Internet Searches">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt21"/>Internet Searches</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt22"/>Many indexers have Web sites, and Internet searches may help you find an indexer. Because Internet searches produce so many results, sorting through them will take time.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p91" title="91"/>
<p><a id="pinpt23"/>For example, a Google search on &#x201C;indexers&#x201D; produced 354,000 hits. The ASI Web site appeared first. (This excellent resource for finding indexers is discussed in the next section.) The next 60 hits or so also revealed links to Web sites on computer languages, where &#x201C;indexers&#x201D; has a different meaning, as well as links to sites of other indexing associations.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt24"/>A search on &#x201C;how to find an indexer&#x201D; (which generated more than 1 million hits) also led to the ASI Web site, as well as to sites regarding a Microsoft Office software utility. In the next 60 hits, we found some valid information on how to locate an indexer, as well as a few links to freelance indexers.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt25"/>The most links to freelance indexers&#x2019; sites were found with a search on &#x201C;book indexing services.&#x201D; The top 60 hits or so (of 322,000 hits) were almost all links to freelance indexers&#x2019; sites, as well as to information on indexing careers and training.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt26"/>When indexers are found through online searches, it is advisable to check references and ask to see work samples.</p>
</section>
<section title="American Society of Indexers">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt27"/>American Society of Indexers</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt28"/>As already mentioned, the ASI Web site tops the list in a couple of sample Internet searches. It provides an excellent resource for information about indexers and indexing.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt29"/>The ASI home page (<a href="http://www.asindexing.org">www.asindexing.org</a>) offers links to &#x201C;Advice for Editors and Authors,&#x201D; which includes information on working with freelance indexers, an indexing evaluation checklist, and reasons to use a professional indexer (&#x201C;Editors, how much is an index worth to you?&#x201D;).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt30"/>The &#x201C;What Is Indexing&#x201D; link offers an FAQ on indexing. Although geared for those seeking information on indexing as a career, it also includes information that editors may find useful, such as a review of prices for services and the skills and education that indexers need.</p>
<section title="Indexer Locator">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt31"/>Indexer Locator</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt32"/>The ASI home page also offers a link to &#x201C;Find an Indexer.&#x201D; This link provides information on the ASI Indexer Locator and Jobs Hotline.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt33"/>The Indexer Locator is an online database that lists indexers&#x2019; qualifications, including subject specialties. The indexers are ASI members in good standing who have paid to advertise their services. The information provided is self-reported, and ASI makes no representation about the indexers&#x2019; qualifications. A perusal shows that many highly qualified and experienced indexers have listings in the Indexer Locator. As of October 2007, 166 ASI members used this vehicle to seek clients.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt34"/>To use the Indexer Locator, go to ASI&#x2019;s home page, and then click on &#x201C;Find an Indexer&#x201D; either on the left side of the home page or in the main body of the home page. Once on the Indexer Locator page, click on &#x201C;Search the Indexer Locator Directory.&#x201D; You may then search by last name, state of residence, subject specialty, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p92" title="92"/>language, or type of material to be indexed. Probably the most popular search parameter is subject specialty. Search results give a list of indexer names in random order. That means doing the search again will produce the same names, but the ordering of them will change.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt35"/>Clicking on any name will direct you to a &#x201C;Directory Detail,&#x201D; which provides the indexer&#x2019;s full contact information, indexing software used, type of materials indexed, subject specialties, and a short description of indexing services and experience. This information will help you find an indexer suited to your project. Do you need a Spanish language indexer? Someone who is willing to take rush projects? Do you need an indexer experienced in FrameMaker embedding techniques?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt36"/>When you contact an indexer from the Indexer Locator listing, be sure to say you found him through the Index Locator listing. Most likely, you may have to contact several potential candidates before you find one available to take on the project within your schedule and budget.</p>
</section>
<section title="Jobs Hotline">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt37"/>Jobs Hotline</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt38"/>Another valuable resource from ASI is the Jobs Hotline. This service allows publishers, editors, and authors to announce their need for in-house or freelance indexers. Editors provide job information to ASI, and that information is sent by email to ASI members who have signed up for the Jobs Hotline. Indexers interested in the job respond directly to the editor or author. This service is free to both the client and the ASI member.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt39"/>From the ASI home page, click on &#x201C;Find an Indexer.&#x201D; The Jobs Hotline is a subhead of the Indexer Locator page. Scroll down to the link for Jobs Hotline. Clicking on that link takes you to the Jobs Hotline Submission Form. You&#x2019;ll find fields on the form for job title, whether the job is on site or freelance, and your contact information. There are also fields to describe the job in detail and specify the type of experience or special knowledge that your job requires.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Indexer Qualities">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-36"><strong><a id="pinpt40"/>INDEXER QUALITIES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt41"/>Once you find a potential indexer, how do you know if she is qualified or will be a good match for your job? Although there is currently no certification of indexers in the U.S., editors seeking professional indexers can inquire about the indexer&#x2019;s training and look for specific desirable qualities. Checking references is also a good practice when hiring a freelancer for the first time.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt42"/>Indexers learn how to index in a variety of ways. Many have learned through the USDA Graduate School distance learning courses or other online courses. Some library schools offer indexing courses as part of their curriculum. ASI offers a training program, which will produce many aspiring indexers starting in 2008. Other indexers are self-taught or have learned through on-the-job training. Ask the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p93" title="93"/>indexer what kind of training he has had and how many years he has been providing indexing services.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt43"/>Beyond training and experience, there are several desirable qualities to look for in an indexer. First and foremost, you need an indexer free to schedule the job during your time frame. Some projects will require an immediate time commitment, while others can be planned in advance. Ability to meet deadlines&#x2014;a crucial quality in indexers&#x2014;is certainly influenced by availability. Editors may find that their preferred indexer is not available due to previous commitments.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt44"/>When approaching an indexer with whom you have not worked previously, the indexer&#x2019;s level of experience can help the editor judge ability to meet deadlines. If an indexer has been in business for a couple of years and has repeat clients, that indexer is no doubt meeting deadlines. Ask the indexer to provide a couple of references to verify timeliness and quality of work.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt45"/>For novice indexers, contact the indexer&#x2019;s teacher (if applicable) in addition to checking references. Were lessons completed on time? Did the indexer complete the course? Was course work acceptable?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt46"/>When seeking an indexer, editors must also determine whether subject matter expertise is required. For some projects, a passing familiarity of the subject will suffice, while other projects may require in-depth knowledge. For some trade how-to&#x2019;s and lower-division textbooks, subject knowledge may not prove critical. However, most subjects have their own jargon. If the indexer lacks familiarity with a subject, it can lead to poor indexing, such as missing terms of art or picking up unnecessary concepts.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt47"/>When offering a job to an indexer, editors should discuss the content and level of the text to help determine whether the job is a good match for the indexer (see also <a href="chapter008.xhtml">Chapter 8</a>). An indexer&#x2019;s experience with the type of material to be indexed (textbook, monograph, journal, instruction manual, etc.) may also be a selection factor.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt48"/>Which indexer is hired may also be influenced by budget. If there is little money in the budget for the index, a less experienced indexer may be willing to take the project for a lower rate. Using a less experienced indexer does not necessarily mean a lesser quality index. Everyone has to start somewhere, and sometimes indexers only need an opportunity to prove themselves. The author or editor can help by providing lists of terms to be included in the index. A novice indexer may have more questions or need more guidance, but it could prove to be time well spent if you are helping to develop an indexer who can comply with your style standards and index specifications on future projects.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt49"/>On the other hand, some projects may merit paying more than the going rate. If you require a very quick turnaround or definite subject matter expertise, you may want to argue for a higher indexing budget. A rush fee may be appropriate to get a quick turnaround, and high-level experience or subject knowledge may require a <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p94" title="94"/>premium rate of pay. You may also be faced with very large or multi-volume projects requiring more than one indexer or a team approach. This would also call for a larger budget.</p>
</section>
<section title="contracts and Letters of Intent">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-37"><strong><a id="pinpt50"/>CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF INTENT</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt51"/>Many editors and indexers work under verbal agreements, although ASI recommends written contracts. Written contracts protect both the indexer and the publisher and provide remedies when the terms of the agreement are violated. For example, is a kill fee due to the indexer if the publisher cancels a scheduled project? What if the publisher is unhappy with the indexer&#x2019;s work? Without a contract, such issues are left to resolution through verbal discussion, which may or may not prove satisfactory. (See <a href="chapter006.xhtml">Chapter 6</a> for a discussion of editor/indexer relations.)</p>
<p><a id="pinpt52"/>A copy of ASI&#x2019;s Recommended Indexing Agreement is included in <a href="appendix001.xhtml">Appendix A</a> at the end of this book. An online version is also available at ASI&#x2019;s Web site. From the home page, click on &#x201C;Resources&#x201D; to link to the ASI Sample Indexing Agreement.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt53"/>An indexing contract should cover at least the following:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt54"/>Title of the work</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt55"/>Expected page length of the work and description of page layout (type size, number of columns, notes, tables, etc.)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt56"/>Time schedule and delivery method of final proofs to indexer</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt57"/>Delivery date and method of completed index to publisher</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt58"/>Provisions governing late delivery of material by either publisher or indexer</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt59"/>Provisions for re-indexing or corrections</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt60"/>Specifications for index layout and file submission format</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt61"/>Rate of pay for the index and the payment schedule</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt62"/>Assignment of copyright for the index</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt63"/>See <a href="chapter008.xhtml">Chapter 8</a> for additional information on contract negotiations.</p>
</section>
<section title="Payment">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-38"><strong><a id="pinpt64"/>PAYMENT</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt65"/>Freelance indexers work hard to meet deadlines, often facing compressed schedules or taking on rush projects. They appreciate prompt payment&#x0021; A 30-day net is a reasonable payment schedule for both publishers and indexers. Note that indexers&#x2019; <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p95" title="95"/>invoices may specify terms in addition to due dates, such as discounts for early payment or penalties for late payments. Specific terms may be noted on invoices, so be sure to check for those.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt66"/>Occasionally, book packagers want to wait until they are paid before paying their subcontractors. Unless this was agreed upon beforehand, making indexers wait unreasonable periods to be paid will not create good working relationships. A written contract with specific payment terms will protect both parties.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p96" title="96"/>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
