<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p71" title="71"/>
<section title="Author/Editor/Indexer Relationships" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-6"><strong>Chapter 6</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-6"><strong>Author/Editor/Indexer Relationships</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>To paraphrase <em>Casablanca,</em> every index is potentially the beginning of a beautiful relationship. It may be a simple, businesslike, two-person dialogue between an editor and an indexer; it may be a sweeping soap opera involving a cast of lead editor, production editor, compositor, subject indexer, names indexer, author, and the author&#x2019;s secretary and graduate students. Wherever the indexing process occurs along that continuum, however, it involves the development of a relationship. That relationship can be mutually profitable and can lead to further collaborations, or it can be toxic. Like all relationships, it requires some work on the part of all parties involved.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt4"/>Honesty and fairness are critical to the development of a satisfactory author/editor/indexer partnership. All parties will find the process much smoother if they are up-front about what they want from the index, what restrictions they have, and when things need to be done.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>Authors are disadvantaged because, even as seasoned writers, they have gone through the publication process with only a limited number of books. As a result, they sometimes make assumptions about what the index should include. It is a little late to ask for a complete index of names or to have the notes indexed after receiving the final index. By then, the indexer has moved on to other projects, and the editor has to get the book into production or to the printer. Authors with firm ideas about the index should talk to either the editor or the indexer, or preferably both, at the start of the process to make sure they will get what they want.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt6"/>Editors are like the umpires at a ball game; they need to be clear on the rules, things like house style requirements and when the index is due. Nothing frustrates an indexer more than to be told, when turning in a completed index, &#x201C;Oh, did I tell you? We only have eight pages. You may have to cut.&#x201D; It is much easier to produce the required index when the indexer knows about space restrictions right at the start. Waiting until the very end of the process&#x2014;or, worse, making executive decisions on the sly and hoping no one will notice&#x2014;is not fair to anyone, least of all the text being indexed.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p72" title="72"/>
<section title="The importance Of Communication">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-28"><strong><a id="pinpt7"/>THE IMPORTANCE OF COMMUNICATION</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>A co-author of this book once pointed out to a client that she needed to have final pages before she could begin indexing; if the text moved around on the pages, she would need to reindex all or part of the work and would have to charge accordingly. About a quarter of the way through the indexing process, someone decided the book should be printed with a larger font size, which naturally affected the flow of the text across the pages, changing the page numbers for quite a few entries.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>Instead of talking to the indexer about this, the editor said nothing, let her keep indexing, and decided to fix the pagination differences in-house after submission&#x2014;except it never got fixed. When the publisher sent the indexer a copy of the book, she immediately realized that three quarters of the page numbers were off, and a comparison of the printed book with the manuscript she had saved soon showed why.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt10"/>The indexer contacted the editor, who confessed that she had been &#x201C;afraid&#x201D; to contact her and figured she would charge more money, busting her budget. In fact the indexer could have repaginated the entries pretty easily, for a minimal extra charge. As it turned out, the editor paid full price for a completely useless index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt11"/>In the rarest of instances, an index has to be revised and reprinted separately, costing even more. A little communication early in the game will help mitigate such crises.</p>
</section>
<section title="Potential Problems with an Index">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-29"><strong><a id="pinpt12"/>POTENTIAL PROBLEMS WITH AN INDEX</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt13"/>Indexers, on their part, owe it to their clients to quickly determine if a manuscript presents special problems, such as missing figures, sliding schedules, mispaginations, misplaced illustrations, etc., particularly if such problems will affect scheduling and cost. The indexer should discuss these issues frankly with the editor and author. Even if they are contacted only verbally or by email, indexers have a contract with their clients to produce an acceptable work in a certain amount of time for a particular price.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt14"/>It is not uncommon to reach an agreement for indexing without the indexer having seen a truly representative sample of the text. On examination, the text may present difficulties that were not clear at the time of accepting the project. A linguistics text, for example, might turn out to contain computational materials that the indexer did not expect and has no clue how to handle. The project may turn out a good deal longer than originally indicated, which could affect schedule and budget.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt15"/>If a project is submitted well ahead of its due date, it is a good idea to try to index at least a chapter to get a feel for the book and its particular issues. That way, if you see a potential problem, you can tell the editor and author about it right away and have time to work through how to handle it.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt16"/>Besides honesty and fairness, authors, editors, and indexers also need to recognize and respect each other&#x2019;s roles in the publishing process. Failure to understand <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p73" title="73"/>and appreciate what different parties bring to the finalization of the text is at the heart of many a wayward project. Authors, editors, and indexers share some ends, but they also have divergent goals. Comprehending these legitimate differences and keeping them in mind will be of enormous assistance in creating and sustaining a successful collaboration.</p>
</section>
<section title="The Index From Three Points of View">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-30"><strong><a id="pinpt17"/>THE INDEX FROM THREE POINTS OF VIEW</strong></h1>
<section title="Authors and Indexes">
<h2 class="level2a"><strong><a id="pinpt18"/>Authors and Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt19"/>Authors are not always much involved in the indexing process. Some publishing houses handle indexing entirely through the editors or the production department, especially if the publisher is handling payment. If authors get any chance at all to comment on the index, their remarks are dealt with entirely in-house. In other situations, the indexer gets author feedback, but only through the agency of the editor.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt20"/>Sometimes a press may have a list of &#x201C;recommended indexers&#x201D; to give an author and expect authors and indexers to communicate directly with each other; in some cases the author even contracts with and pays the indexer directly. So it is important for editors and indexers to understand the special needs and situation of the author.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt21"/>Indexers and editors need to know two crucial things about authors. First, books are like the authors&#x2019; children. Authors may have spent two to three years, and often far, far longer, researching the subject and writing the text. Especially if it is their first published text, authors are often excited and concerned about every aspect of its publication, including the index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt22"/>It is often a terrible shock for authors to discover that for the editor and indexer, their baby is just another job, another item on their busy schedules. Ironically, both the editor and the indexer are likely to be paid far more for their relatively brief involvement with texts than most authors will ever make from them. For 99 percent of authors, their publication becomes chiefly a labor of love. So if authors seem to be fussing over tiny details&#x2014;obsessing over the precise wording of a minor array or dithering over how exactly to format cross-references&#x2014;remember, you are likely to be talking about the equivalent of their beloved first-born.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt23"/>The second crucial thing to remember about authors is that, in all likelihood, they know nothing about indexing. The indexer will have to explain basic indexing facts, such as the rules of double-posting versus cross-referencing, and what is considered indexable material. Like any other group of individuals, some authors &#x201C;get&#x201D; indexing right away, and some never will, so the explanatory process may be simple or quite involved.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p74" title="74"/>
<p><a id="pinpt24"/>Some authors happily sit back and let indexers do their work, but many&#x2014;whom one might optimistically refer to as &#x201C;high-energy tinkerers&#x201D;&#x2014;will insist upon reading through the index line by line. To pretty much anyone but an indexer, reading an index rather than consulting it is a confusing process. Authors who do this will inevitably have questions, many of which may arise from ignorance of the indexing process.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt25"/>Authors may jump to bizarre conclusions about the way the index works. Some authors will assume they need to check every page reference in the index and then get bogged down in trying to figure out exactly where a subject begins and ends (something that all indexers know is often open to interpretation).</p>
</section>
<section title="Important Topics for Authors">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><em><a id="pinpt26"/>Important Topics for Authors</em></strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt27"/>The following topics are those that most consistently raise questions from authors. The indexer or editor needs to provide straightforward explanations. Here are some examples:</p>
<ol class="olindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt28"/>Why are some topics in two places, while other topics are cross-referenced? <em>Small amounts of information are &#x201C;double-posted,&#x201D; or are put in every place the reader might look for them, for ease of use. We only cross-reference to large chunks of information. For example, I have cross-referenced any array with more than three (or five, or whatever) subheadings.</em></li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt29"/>Some things are in the index twice. There is an entry for farming so why then do we have an entry for agriculture? That is redundant&#x0021; <em>Indexes are supposed to be redundant. They are intended to provide all reasonable points of entry into a text. A person who wants to find information about agriculture will look in the A&#x2019;s; he might not think to look under farming. Remember, readers do not read the index; they consult it. Someone who looks up agriculture will likely never even know there is a &#x201C;redundant&#x201D; entry for farming. When there are two such entries, it is also important that the same information is in both places.</em></li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt30"/>The index has entries for my colleague Fred on page 32, but I reference his book in several notes in chapter 2. Why aren&#x2019;t those indexed? <em>The index only provides entries for substantive information. The references to Fred&#x2019;s book in the notes are not considered substantive&#x2014;you have simply indicated it as a source for the information you talk about in the text. On page 32, however, you talk quite expansively about Fred&#x2019;s theories. That is considered substantive material.</em> Sometimes authors make a special request for a complete names index, covering every scholarly mention in the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p75" title="75"/>text. This is the type of request that needs to come at the start of the project.</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt31"/>The main topic of my book is whales, but there&#x2019;s hardly anything in the index under whales&#x0021; <em>The main topic of the book, what indexers call the &#x201C;metatopic,&#x201D; is what every entry in the index is about. The metatopic provides the unspoken context of the index. The reader knows this and will only look up &#x201C;whales&#x201D; in the index for certain sorts of things, such as kinds or types of whales, or the definition of a whale. Otherwise, every entry would be under whales.</em></li></ol>
<section title="Author-Editor and Author-Indexer Relationships">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt32"/>Author-Editor and Author-Indexer Relationships</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt33"/>Editors and indexers can avoid some of these complications by dealing with author questions before they arise. By the time indexing rolls around, editors will have figured out what kind of authors they are dealing with and what kind of involvement in the index they will want. If not, editors should ask authors an openended question about their requirements regarding the index to gauge their anticipated level of involvement. The editor should then make sure when setting up the job to inform the indexer how the author will be involved.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt34"/>Indexers who know they will be working directly with authors should make sure to ask a few pertinent questions right up front. What kinds of things does the author expect to appear in the index? What about names? Should the notes be indexed? Explaining all the options, and conveying how they affect timing and price and length, at the beginning of the indexing process ensures fewer surprises or disappointments later. When the index is done, &#x201C;fixing&#x201D; it to the extent desired might not be possible.</p>
</section>
<section title="Author Term Lists">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt35"/>Author Term Lists</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt36"/>Authors sometimes produce, on their own or at the behest of an editor, a list of key terms they expect to see in the index. This can be a simple and short guide or practically an index in itself (just without page numbers). Editors and authors seem to imagine that they are saving the indexer time and trouble. We regret to say that they are not. Indexers generally dislike key term lists.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt37"/>Often, 80 percent of the terms on such lists are totally obvious (&#x201C;Darwin, Charles&#x201D; and &#x201C;morality, origins of,&#x201D; for instance, for a book entitled <em>Evolution and Christian Ethics</em>). About 15 percent are terms that no seasoned indexer would put in an index as a main heading (&#x201C;related subjects&#x201D;). And 5 percent are terms that, search as he might, the indexer cannot even find in the text: It is not unheard of for authors to <em>believe</em> they have written about something when they actually have not. Another possibility is that the phrase or sentence containing that term was removed in editing.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p76" title="76"/>
<p><a id="pinpt38"/>Both authors and editors sometimes seem to be under the mistaken apprehension that indexers work by thinking up terms and then looking for them in the text. If that were the case, using a keyword list might make some sense. But in fact, indexers do their job by reading the text from start to finish and finding or formulating terms from that process. So the keyword list generally offers little help in the process, although maybe it serves as a validation tool.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt39"/>Authors and editors wedded to the idea should consider this option: Make up a list of <em>no more than 35 terms</em> that are considered crucial to the text. By making the list a matter of choice and restriction rather than all-inclusive, authors will provide the indexer with a useful and manageable guide to what they deem most important in the text.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt40"/>If it is house policy to require author evaluation of the index, we recommend the publisher have an instruction sheet about the process. Many publishing houses furnish handouts about <em>how</em> to index, but few have guidelines for index evaluation. Publishers can avoid a great deal of time and trouble by developing such a set of guidelines on their own or by working with their regular indexers.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt41"/>As an example, a publisher might require a cross-reference to all acronyms, even if there is only one page number; both the author and the indexer need to know such a requirement.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt42"/>See <a href="chapter009.xhtml">Chapter 9</a> in this book for more information about developing evaluation guidelines. For their part, indexers working directly with authors may want to develop their own evaluation guidelines for the author.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt43"/>Authors will help the indexing part of the editorial process go much more smoothly if they make sure they understand what they are expected to do in terms of review, and if they stick to the review schedule. A book one indexer once worked on missed its print date&#x2014;and the conference at which it was supposed to be a featured text&#x2014;because the author failed to approve the index on time, even though he had received it well before the deadline and had no significant changes to make to it.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt44"/>While the nonappearance of the book was a nuisance for the author at the conference, it was the editor who had to deal with most of the fallout, and it was the editor and her publishing house that looked bad, even though the delay was beyond their control.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Editors and Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt45"/>Editors and Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt46"/>When it comes to indexes, editors are a bit like traffic cops at the end of rush hour. They are near the end of the project, and they are hoping to get the index through the intersection and on its way without any accidents. This is not to say that editors do not value quality; they are some of the few people on earth who consciously appreciate really good indexing when they see it. But they also have a schedule to keep and a budget to manage&#x2014;and by the time the indexing part of the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p77" title="77"/>project rolls around, that schedule and budget may have been stretched to their limits already, and both indexers and editors have to appreciate that fact.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt47"/>Sometimes the indexing part of the publication process can be compared to a child&#x2019;s playground game of crack-the-whip. Just as the end child absorbs the full force of the energy coursing from wrist to wrist, so the indexing process bears the brunt of all the delays and overruns of costs and pages that have occurred throughout the project, simply by happening at the end.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt48"/>If this is true for textual editors, it is true in spades for production editors. They specialize in shepherding a finished text through the stages required for it to appear in print. Indexers dealing with production editors often innocently assume that they know the content of a book as well as the textual editor does; but while the production editors can confidently tell you about font, type size, page count, and scheduling, they may not be able to answer detailed questions about subject matter. For that, the indexer will need to contact the author or the original text editor. In other cases, the production editor funnels questions to authors and developmental editors.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt49"/>So editors need indexers to understand the schedule and the budget, and to inform them as early as possible of any problems or conflicts. To keep editors happy&#x2014;and to keep their business&#x2014;indexers need to do four things:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt50"/>Obtain all the needed information at the start, and ask for it if the editor does not provide it automatically</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt51"/>Perform a spot check of the project <em>as soon as it comes in</em>, even if the actual indexing would not be started for a while; ensure all the pages are present, all the files are readable, and that the project length and degree of difficulty match expectations</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt52"/>Inform the editor as soon as problems affecting scheduling or price arise</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt53"/>Turn the index in on time and in good shape (no typos, bad cross-references, etc.)</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt54"/>Indexers also need to <em>not</em> do one other thing: pester the editor. Probably the ideal situation for editors follows this scenario: book the indexer and send him the project, and hear nothing until the day before you have penciled yourself a note to make an inquiry, at which time the index file appears in your email box, needing essentially no corrections.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt55"/>Indexers often have legitimate questions about errors they see in the text, whether certain things should be picked up or ignored, or the preferred formatting of certain items. But editors do not want to hear from indexers daily while they <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p78" title="78"/>work on a project. They are busy, and one of the reasons they have hired a freelancer is because they want someone who can work independently.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt56"/>Some indexers think that asking the editor a lot of questions shows interest and drive, and perhaps it does, but it will also assuredly drive the editor up the wall. Try to save up questions and ask them in a bunch, say once a week, unless the question truly requires immediate input to continue indexing. If working directly with an author, copy the editor on any email exchanges so she is kept informed of progress, but do not request editorial input unless it is genuinely needed.</p>
</section>
<section title="Indexers and Indexes">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt57"/>Indexers and Indexes</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt58"/>If one were to do a study of logos on the business cards of indexers, one would find a disturbing number of woodcut reproductions showing earnest little monks laboring over illuminated manuscripts. Indexers like to think of themselves this way, and so, it seems, does much of the rest of the world (when it thinks about indexers at all). The stereotypical portrayals of indexers in novels and short stories show them as harmless drudges with no personal lives slaving for pennies over obscure texts. Authors and editors, however, should not buy into this fiction.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt59"/>Indexers are professionals who generally run their own successful businesses. They work as indexers because they love books and language, and they love thinking for a living, but also because they happen to be good at a job few people can do well. They work very hard at acquiring, maintaining, and adding to their skills. And it <em>is</em> a skill.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt60"/>Many bad indexes have been produced because an author figured a graduate student or a spouse could whip up an index in short order. Indexers want to do a good job, and they want to keep your business, but at the end of the day they also expect and need to make a decent living from it, and they need to deal with many clients.</p>
<section title="Index Revisions">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt61"/>Index Revisions</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt62"/>Indexers cannot drop everything to work on a single project. They usually juggle a number of jobs, and when the clients&#x2019; schedules slip, it may be necessary to compromise over type and timing of work. It also means they cannot afford to tinker endlessly over a job. We call these &#x201C;vampire indexes&#x201D;: projects you turn in but that keep coming back with new requests, such as add all the names in the notes or index subject matter in the notes; or now there is a space issue, so remove references to the notes or change the original specified formatting of the page numbers&#x2026;. Inevitably, of course, these vampires rise from the undead just before press time and so require immediate attention.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt63"/>An indexer will be happy to correct mistakes, make adjustments to the wording when requested, add or remove entries to meet the original specifications, and make some formatting corrections. But the editorial process should not, and cannot, run on endlessly. Editors and authors who find themselves going through more than <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p79" title="79"/>two revisions of the index should ask themselves if the indexer is just not paying attention to requests, or whether it is they themselves who are prolonging the process by changing their minds or not being clear about what they want.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt64"/>A vampire project can be easily avoided. How? Editors and authors should communicate properly with the indexer at the beginning of the project, making clear what they expect, what the schedule is, and what the publisher&#x2019;s rubrics are.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt65"/>A good indexer will make sure to ask the basic questions, of course, but the indexer cannot guess that the author wants only initials for first names of persons (even though they are given in full in the text), or that house style is to print references to illustrations in bold, italic font, or that the book is expected to be a big seller in Romania, so all references to Romania must be picked up, even if they are not substantive.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt66"/>Authors and editors also need to realize that indexers are not production editors. The job of the indexer is primarily one of content, not formatting. See <a href="chapter004.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> on formatting for more information about what indexers can and cannot do, and on what a polished index should look like. While indexers use special software that can do amazing things in terms of manipulating data, such as adding volume numbers to page references and changing the punctuation between text and page reference globally, they do not produce camera-ready copy.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt67"/>While the vampire index can be a pain in the neck, indexers do like to get feedback. Ours is a solitary profession. We mainly work alone, and often the only way we know an index was a success is that we never hear anything more about it once we have sent it in and payment arrives (and even then we may not be sure, until we get repeat business from the client). So while indexers are business people, we are also craftspeople who are willing to revise work to fit needs or to explain why we have made the choices we&#x2019;ve made. If an author or editor does not understand why something appears the way it is, they should feel free to ask. Indexers are generally happy to inform editors and authors about the indexing process and functions.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt68"/>Indexers work by rules and patterns that someone just looking at the index may not immediately recognize. A co-author of this text once opened a book to find that the index, a succession of single lines, many with no page references, was totally out of alphabetical order. It took a minute to realize that someone who did not understand the principles by which index lines are indented had left-justified all the subentries. If something in the index does not make sense to you, <em>ask</em>. The indexer will talk with you about it and make alternative suggestions, if necessary.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Establishing the Facts">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-31"><strong><a id="pinpt69"/>ESTABLISHING THE FACTS</strong></h1>
<section title="The Schedule">
<h2 class="level2a"><strong><a id="pinpt70"/>The Schedule</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt71"/>Usually, an editor or author who needs an index contacts an indexer&#x2014;someone the publishing house or a colleague has worked with; an indexer who has sent a <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p80" title="80"/>solicitation to the publisher; or someone located through a Web site or from the in-house list of recommended indexers. (See <a href="chapter007.xhtml">Chapter 7</a> for more information on finding an indexer.) What do you need to convey in that first conversation for the relationship to get off to a good start?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt72"/>The first thing you need to nail down is the scheduling, no matter at what stage in the publication process the book is. Publishing is a schedule-driven industry, and for an editor, an indexer who cannot make the schedule has little use, no matter how good he is. Indexers, for their part, work with many clients, and the good indexers have busy calendars; before they hear anything else, they need to know if there is any chance they can accommodate you. The scheduling often is the most frustrating part of the entire process.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt73"/>Depending on how forward thinking the editor and author are, the indexer may be contacted well in advance of the proofs being available. When contacted early, the indexer will probably be able to fit the project in. In my experience, indexers are generally booked about six weeks out.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt74"/>However, the earlier one tries to schedule the indexing process, the less likely it is that the schedule will be adhered to. Indexers accept that there will be a certain amount of slippage in the schedule&#x2014;they have to&#x2014;but editors and authors who line up indexers early should still be aware that if the project&#x2019;s timeline goes pear-shaped, everyone may have to make some compromises as to deadlines.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt75"/>Not infrequently, somebody forgets to book the index until the last minute. Precisely because many projects are delayed, indexers may be able to insert a project into their workload. Again, compromises may be required. So whoever contacts the indexer should be well apprised of the timeline, what is absolutely nonnegotiable in terms of deadlines, and where there might be some extra space.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt76"/>When an author or editor calls or emails an indexer about doing an index, the conversation tends to go something like this:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><strong><a id="pinpt77"/>Author or Editor:</strong> Can you index my book?</p>
<p class="pqph1"><strong><a id="pinpt78"/>Indexer:</strong> When is it due?</p>
<p class="pqph1"><strong><a id="pinpt79"/>Author or Editor:</strong> When could you finish it by?</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt80"/>This response might make the indexer grind her teeth, even though it is a perfectly reasonable question on its face. The fact is, if for an urgent project, the editor is willing to pay a rush fee, and the book is not too long, it can be done in a day or so. But the indexer might not like burning the midnight oil and ultimately could do a better job if given more time.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt81"/>On the other hand, if the budget is tight, an indexer might be able to work on an index in bits and pieces when she has a few spare hours and finish it in a month for a good price. If the indexer has a lot of other work, she may not be able to work on <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p81" title="81"/>it right away, but if the text is available now, she could take it and, if another project slips, could turn it around far earlier.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt82"/>Normally it&#x2019;s preferable to have a two-week window scheduled to work on a standard 250-page monograph, from reception of text to deadline, but really, the schedule ultimately depends on when the client needs it back. If you tell an indexer the deadline and the number of pages, she can tell you whether she can make it happen and how, and you can go from there.</p>
</section>
<section title="Payment for the Index">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt83"/>Payment for the Index</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt84"/>Understandably, editors and authors usually want to know about pricing right up front, and generally so do indexers. While indexes can be priced as a lump sum for the project, by the hour, or even by number of entries in the finished index, 90 percent of the time indexers charge per page of indexable text. Rates very a great deal, depending on the indexer&#x2019;s experience and skill, and the difficulty of the book. Encyclopedic, exhaustive indexes will definitely merit a higher per-page charge.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt85"/>Most indexers will quote you an estimated price range and then confirm the actual per-page price when they have seen the text itself or a representative sample. If the client specifies an average number of entries per page, this helps in setting the price.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt86"/>Indexers will also want to know who is in charge of paying: the editor or the author. The price will not differ, but some indexers prefer to institute a progressive payment schedule when working with an individual as opposed to a large company, perhaps receiving part of the fee at the time of the agreement, with the rest due on satisfactory completion of the work.</p>
</section>
<section title="Editorial Responsibility">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt87"/>Editorial Responsibility</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt88"/>Indexers need to know whom to contact about the index, and who has editorial input and responsibility. Will a separate production editor be involved, and what questions should be addressed to her? Is the indexing being handled entirely by an editor, or is the author driving this particular bus? Will there be an index review as part of the process? The partnership will go along much more smoothly if all this information is shared right at the beginning of the project.</p>
</section>
<section title="Subcontracting">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt89"/>Subcontracting</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt90"/>Indexers usually work on their own. If, however, they are working on a project with a special component&#x2014;the author has requested a full listing of all secondary source authors, for instance, or a separate list of Biblical citations which will be extensive, or if it is a legal index with a great many case citations requiring a separate table of cases&#x2014;the indexer may bring in a subcontractor to work on that part of the project. The editor or author should be informed the indexer is doing this, in <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p82" title="82"/>the interest of full disclosure, as there is a chance that it might affect scheduling or work processes at some point.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt91"/>Different indexers have different work processes in regard to subcontractors, and as freelancers these procedures are theirs to arrange. But if subcontracting is likely to have an effect on indexing quality or scheduling, indexers should always be open with editors about it. Some publishing houses state in their contracts that they expect the work to be the sole product of the contracting indexer; if this is the case, it is especially important for the indexer to disclose subcontracting practices.</p>
</section>
<section title="Contracts">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt92"/>Contracts</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt93"/>Some publishing houses and some indexers always issue a formal contract for even the smallest jobs. In general, however, most projects are short-term and are agreed to in an informal letter or letters of intent (in most cases a series of emails, these days). This is a perfectly good way of doing business. Keep copies of email correspondence with clients for reference and in case a problem should arise; if necessary, these would provide legal evidence of any contractual arrangements.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt94"/>For any large or long-term job, however, the best option is a formal contract, which should spell out payment arrangements, deadlines, and who shall decide the acceptability of the work and how that will be determined. You might also want to include information about contingencies like late payment fees or the effect of slippage in receipt of material on the date the index is due.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt95"/>The American Society of Indexers (ASI) has a sample contract available on its Web site (<a href="http://asindexing.org/site/asiagree.htm">asindexing.org/site/asiagree.htm</a>), shown in <a href="appendix001.xhtml">Appendix A</a>.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Working Out the Details">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-32"><strong><a id="pinpt96"/>WORKING OUT THE DETAILS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt97"/>Now that you have established a preliminary working relationship, what comes next? It is time to focus on details. Authors, editors, and indexers will all have questions about the project, and for this partnership to work, it is important not to be shy about asking them. It is also useful not to assume anything.</p>
<section title="What the Indexer Needs">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt98"/>What the Indexer Needs</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt99"/>At the start of a project, an editor or an author will often ask, &#x201C;What do you need from me?&#x201D; Well, first of all, an indexer needs the text that is to be indexed. Only a few years ago, most indexers worked off hard copy, and editors spent a lot of money mailing out big packages of paper. Today most indexers get the text via an electronic download&#x2014;usually in Adobe Acrobat PDF format, as an email attachment or downloaded from an FTP site.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt100"/>Due to vision problems, one co-author of this book started indexing directly from the electronic source, which could be magnified, and quickly found it had <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p83" title="83"/>other advantages: Long names or organizational names could be cut and pasted more quickly (and accurately) than retyping them, and the search function could be used to check for occurrences of indexable terms (especially useful for &#x201C;hard targets,&#x201D; e.g., names of countries, without synonyms or alternative forms). Many indexers still prefer to work mostly from paper, although most also take advantage of these electronic functions.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt101"/>The indexer needs the text to be in its final, or nearly final, format. For one thing, if the text changes significantly after it has been indexed, the index would not reflect those changes. Text changes might affect the whole index too, because altering the text may change the way it flows over the pages. A chunk of text inserted into page 4 may relocate every bit of text that follows in the chapter and perhaps in the whole book. Topics once correctly indexed as being on page 5 may have shifted over to page 6. While very small changes and corrections to things like typos will usually not make a huge difference, editors and authors often underestimate how last-minute rewrites can affect the pagination.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt102"/>Production editors may not change the text, but their layout work will often radically affect the way the text falls on the pages. Publishers may try to have the indexing done while production work is finalized, but this usually is a recipe for disaster. Unless your text is indexed to section numbers (which are fixed in relationship to the text regardless of how it is formatted), or you have worked out some other method of relating index entries to indexed text so that page numbers can be attached at some later date (usually by embedding the entries in the text), you will need to ensure that the indexer gets the <em>final</em> version of the text.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt103"/>If the publishing house has style guidelines, whoever is working directly with the indexer should make sure that she has a copy. Indexers are used to working with a wide variety of styles and can easily adapt to them, sometimes even using their software to impose global style choices at the end of the indexing process. But many formatting and style requirements affect how the index is constructed, so the earlier an indexer knows how the index should look, the better. Style guidelines should be sent with the text to be indexed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt104"/>Most indexers will turn in the index as an electronic RTF file, readable in almost any word processing system. Editors and authors who require some other format should work out their needs with the indexer right at the beginning to save a mad scramble at the end of the project. Anyone with a working knowledge of word processing can alter fonts, margins, columns, etc., at will, and print the index out. Asking for these sorts of special features (as opposed to, say, requesting that the references to photographs be in italic type) is unnecessary. Clients will sometimes request that indexers turn in a paper copy, or double-space the index, or put it in double columns&#x2014;all relics of the pre-digital age.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt105"/>A text being indexed using embedded tags does, however, require special handling. See <a href="chapter010.xhtml">Chapter 10</a> for details on that subject.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p84" title="84"/>
</section>
<section title="Previewing an Index">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt106"/>Previewing an Index</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt107"/>Authors and sometimes editors, especially those handling their first project, occasionally will ask if they can preview an index. On the face of it this may sound sensible, but it is often not very helpful. A partially written index is not like a partially written book. While books have discrete portions, indexes do not. Entries in an index depend upon each other.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt108"/>For instance, the indexer might come across a section about environmentalism in a text, and he knows from his first review of the text that this topic comes up quite a few times in the second half of the book. So he puts in an entry under environmentalism and inserts a cross-reference from &#x201C;ecology.&#x201D; Someone looking at the partial index might legitimately wonder why he has not double-posted this entry.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt109"/>Partial indexes are also unedited. An indexer might be uncertain of how to word a complex concept, so he may have some sort of placeholder for it until he comes up with the <em>mot juste;</em> a reviewer would not understand what this shorthand meant. There will be lots of this sort of thing in a partial index. Editors and authors may become confused and worried when they see these things, and the indexer then has to spend precious time explaining and defending them.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt110"/>Finally, the timetable will be affected by a partial review. If there are two deadlines for a project rather than just one, it affects the flexibility the indexer has to get it done and often takes longer, especially if he has to wait for the reviewer to give feedback before proceeding.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt111"/>A co-author of this book once submitted a partial index for review only to get it back covered with worried notes about missing elements&#x2014;all from the part of the book that had not yet been indexed. It turned out that when asking for a &#x201C;partial index,&#x201D; the reviewing author expected a complete index of the first half of the alphabet (another example, presumably, of a non-indexer assuming indexers work by thinking of terms and then looking for them in the text). The author had spent tons of time on his notes, and the editor and indexer then had to spend tons of time explaining matters.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt112"/>Submission of a partial index may be a good idea if the project is a long one, taking several months. This is especially true if payment is to be made in partial installments as indexing progresses; the milestone submitted is a good-faith indication that the work is being done.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt113"/>If the text deals with a complicated topic, and if the reviewer understands the basics of the indexing process, a partial index review arrangement can be useful. But in most cases, in short projects with tight turnaround times, review of partial indexes impedes progress more than helps. It is much better to review a finished index in its organic wholeness.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p85" title="85"/>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Developing and Sustaining the Relationship">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-33"><strong><a id="pinpt114"/>DEVELOPING AND SUSTAINING THE RELATIONSHIP</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt115"/>Everyone has the materials and information required, and all have come to a good understanding of what sort of index to expect, when it will be turned in, and to whom it will be submitted. So now you just sit back and wait for it, right? Well, in a perfect world, yes. But this world is seldom perfect. Big things happen: Schedules change, a production editor needs to reflow the pages, someone gets sick, etc. But more often lots of little things happen: The indexer runs across a sentence that seems garbled; the author feels a bit uncertain about precisely what is going to be indexed in the notes; the editor realizes he has booked a vacation the week the index is due.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt116"/>Communicating efficiently during the period in which the index is being produced will develop and sustain the author/editor/indexer relationship.</p>
<section title="Prompt Notifications">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt117"/>Prompt Notifications</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt118"/>Anything that will affect the schedule or the indexing process requires prompt notification. If the indexer finds that the work is not what he expected and will take longer than estimated, he must inform the editor immediately, and negotiations based on the new reality must occur. If the editor&#x2019;s schedule shifts, and the index will be needed earlier, the editor should talk to the indexer as soon as possible and see what can be arranged. Sometimes, the project has to be moved to another indexer, so the sooner the editor or author knows about the schedule change, the better to find someone.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt119"/>Most people in publishing are aware of the fluid nature of project timing, but no one can be infinitely flexible. Dealing with scheduling issues as soon as they arise is the best way to make sure the work gets done.</p>
</section>
<section title="Holding Back">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt120"/>Holding Back</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt121"/>As mentioned previously, there is such a thing as too much communication. Indexers should not pester editors with questions, and editors and authors should let the indexer get on with the work. Nevertheless, questions arise: typos or spelling inconsistencies in the text, queries about coverage, stylistic issues, whether to include parenthetical explanations (for instance, &#x201C;Diocletian (Roman emperor), 352, 689&#x201D;), etc.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt122"/>Unless an answer is absolutely needed, the best option is to save these queries, and either report on them at the end or, for a longer project, send them to the editor or author in an email every week or so. An indexer should always try to indicate how a response will affect the index, and whether she really needs a definite answer, or if she is just informing the editor or author of a typo.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt123"/>For their part, authors and editors need to respond to such communications promptly if an answer is needed. Sometimes an indexer sends off a critical note <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p86" title="86"/>(&#x201C;Both Greek and Roman forms of town names are used in the text. Do you have a preference as to how you want these listed in the index?&#x201D;), and it is as if the email fell off the ends of the earth. In such situations, the indexer needs to make a judgment call, note what she has done, and hope the client will agree with her decision. If it has to be fixed at the end, it may add unnecessary time to the project.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt124"/>Occasionally, clients become rather huffy when the indexer points out an error. The indexer should try to be as diplomatic as possible and hope authors and editors will respond in kind. Everyone makes mistakes; no text is perfect, just as no index is perfect. Indexers tend to notice rather different sorts of errors than a proofreader; for instance, we are more likely to spot spelling inconsistencies many pages or chapters away from each other as we pick up references to names or places. The proofer is more likely to spot inconsistencies right near one another. It is important to remember that everyone&#x2019;s aim is to produce the best book possible.</p>
</section>
<section title="Wrapping It All Up">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt125"/>Wrapping It All Up</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt126"/>Often indexers submit an index and never hear another thing; the index is published with little or no change. Sometimes, however, editors&#x2014;and especially authors&#x2014;want to make corrections and revisions to the index. Indexers generally welcome this process. Often, however, revision work means that indexers have to educate authors and editors about indexing. Indexers have to be prepared for this, and their clients have to be prepared to listen. When indexers get feedback on an index, it generally involves three sorts of issues:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt127"/>Things that must be corrected</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt128"/>Changes in wording</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt129"/>Queries and comments related to the way the index works</li>
</ul>
<p><a id="pinpt130"/>Yes, indexers do make mistakes, and when they are picked up, the indexer should readily fix them. Authors and editors should expect the occasional error; that is one of the reasons someone familiar with the book should review the index. Remember, the indexer has probably come across and reported typos and errors in the text, even after it has been proofread, so it is not surprising that some errors may crop up in the index as well.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt131"/>While a high rate of error is a problem, obviously, finding one or two should not be viewed as the end of the world, but as par for the course. Again, we are all trying to produce the best work possible, and corrections should be taken in stride.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt132"/>Clients sometimes prefer different wording from what the indexer has used. Unless the indexer finds it to be problematic (it does not make sense, or it makes the line impossibly long and cumbersome), he should accept whatever a client <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p87" title="87"/>prefers. The author&#x2019;s or editor&#x2019;s fresh eye may have revealed a simpler and clearer way of expressing an idea, and the indexer needs to be open to that.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt133"/>Probably 80 percent of the queries a reviewer sends, however, have to do with the way the index is constructed. The client does not understand why or when cross-referencing versus double-posting is used, or why different forms of cross-references are entered, or the difference between a page reference that is a range (97&#x2013;99) versus one that is a series (97, 98, 99). The indexer&#x2019;s job includes explaining why she made those choices and what the alternatives are, and the reviewer&#x2019;s job is to understand those explanations.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt134"/>An indexer may want to provide notes for the reviewer if there are unusual features or if she feels something is not self-explanatory. Nevertheless, it frequently happens that the indexer will get a query such as, &#x201C;For some reason, some of the pages are in italics. I think the file may be corrupted.&#x201D; An indexer may then have to point out that the index headnote indicates that italic page references indicate illustrations (a common indexing convention).</p>
<p><a id="pinpt135"/>That is not to say that every choice the indexer has made is not alterable. Most index structures are malleable, and there are many ways to put an index together. A good indexer will give the author or editor choices about how to solve a particular indexing problem. But clients themselves, when they are reviewing an index, need to be aware that indexers usually have good reasons for why they have done something and that the index does indeed have a logical structure.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt136"/>Part of the great fun of indexing is its puzzle-like construction. If authors and editors are open to learning about indexing, and indexers are open to discussing their process, the review and finalization of the index can be a rewarding process.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt137"/>A satisfying index review is both the end and the beginning of a relationship. When authors, editors, and indexers understand each other&#x2019;s priorities, respect each other&#x2019;s abilities, and are honest and open in their dealings, they will be able to move through the indexing part of the publishing process quickly and easily. And a successful first project together may lead to many more.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p88" title="88"/>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
