<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p97" title="97"/>
<section title="What the Editor Needs to Tell the Indexer" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-8"><strong>Chapter 8</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-8"><strong>What the Editor Needs to Tell the Indexer</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>Once the editor chooses a shortlist of potential indexers, negotiations can begin. First, the indexer&#x2019;s availability and suitability need to be determined. Then fees and deadlines need to be set. Additional issues such as schedule changes, editorial changes, and delivery methods for pages and completed indexes will need to be discussed. So what exactly does the editor need to tell the indexer?</p>
<section title="Scope of Work">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-39"><strong><a id="pinpt4"/>SCOPE OF WORK</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>The scope of the work will help determine the indexer&#x2019;s suitability and availability for the project. The editor should inform the indexer of the subject matter and complexity of the text, the intended audience of the work, and the length of the text. For example, &#x201C;I have an upper division college textbook on applied linguistics ready for indexing. It has 395 indexable pages, and I need the index in three weeks.&#x201D; Giving the indexer a word count is usually not helpful, since the length and density of the finished text will depend on the font in which the text is set.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt6"/>If the work is a subsequent edition, it is helpful if the editor can let the indexer know the length of the original index and whether the publishers liked that index. Providing the old index as a standard word processing file will allow the indexer to read the headings into his indexing software and use those as the basis for creating the new index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>With such specific information, the indexer can determine whether her current work schedule will allow for taking the project and whether she is qualified or comfortable working in the subject area. Occasionally, indexers may ask to see some sample pages from the project to get an idea of its complexity and density.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>The indexer will also need to know how many pages or lines have been allowed for the index. This will determine the depth of indexing required and will help the indexer gauge how much time the project may take. (See <a href="chapter005.xhtml">Chapter 5</a> for an in-depth discussion on appropriate index length.) Do not assume that a shorter index will be easier to prepare. It can take a great deal of time to create an index for a limited space, since the indexer must make careful decisions about what to include in the index.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p98" title="98"/>
<p><a id="pinpt9"/>In addition, the indexer will need to know if multiple indexes are required (separate author or plant name indexes, for example) or whether the job requires embedding index terms, adding type codes, or doing any other additional work.</p>
</section>
<section title="Style Guidelines">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-40"><strong><a id="pinpt10"/>STYLE GUIDELINES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt11"/>If the index has to follow a specific format, the editor should send the indexer a style sheet or another index done in the desired style. A clear understanding of style requirements will avoid delays and extra work at the end of the project. For information on style and formatting, see <a href="chapter004.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>, which covers those issues in complete detail.</p>
</section>
<section title="Negotiating the Fee">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-41"><strong><a id="pinpt12"/>NEGOTIATING THE FEE</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt13"/>The scope of the work directly affects the fee for the index. Although the editor undoubtedly has a budget for the index, the scope of the work must be considered. For example, a technical medical text with eight index entries per page will command a much higher rate of pay than a how-to on flower arranging with only a few index entries per page.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt14"/>Indexers need to charge more for preparation of multiple indexes or for embedded indexes, due to the extra time involved in such projects. An experienced indexer can be a good resource in helping the editor or author reach a reasonable fee.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt15"/>Key elements in fee negotiation are good communication and clearly understood agreements.</p>
<section title="Fee Arrangements">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt16"/>Fee Arrangements</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt17"/>Indexers typically charge for their work in one of four ways: per page, per entry, per hour, or per project.</p>
<section title="Per-Page Rates">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt18"/>Per-Page Rates</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt19"/>The majority of indexers charge by the page. Again, scope of work will influence the per-page rate. The density and complexity of the text, indexability of figures or illustrations, and number of indexes required all affect the rate. The indexer&#x2019;s experience level will also be a factor, as seasoned indexers expect to be compensated appropriately for their level of skill and knowledge.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt20"/>According to the American Society of Indexer&#x2019;s (ASI) 2004 Salary Survey (most current figures available at press time), median per-page rates were &#x0024;3.26 to &#x0024;3.50, with rates ranging from &#x0024;1.50 to &#x0024;7.26 per page. Since this survey was conducted several years ago, it is safe to assume that by the time you are reading this, rates will have increased somewhat. New salary surveys, with updated information, will be published on the ASI Web site (<a href="http://www.asindexing.org">www.asindexing.org</a>) as they are completed.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p99" title="99"/>
<p><a id="pinpt21"/>The advantage of this method of payment is that the total fee is determined at the beginning of the project, provided that the editor and indexer agree on what constitutes indexable pages. Front matter and back matter are usually excluded from indexing, although some publishers may request that substantive introductions, glossaries, or appendices be indexed. Editors and authors should advise indexers of their expectations to avoid surprises.</p>
</section>
<section title="Per-Entry Rates">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt22"/>Per-Entry Rates</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt23"/>Another method of charging is per entry. Although much less common than charging by the page, this method is sometimes used for medical and scientific indexes, as well as encyclopedias that generate a large number of index entries per page. It may also be used in periodical or database indexing when a consistent number of entries per publication or issue is generated.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt24"/>The difficulty in per-entry charges is defining an entry, as definitions vary. Some count each concept as an entry&#x2014;regardless of heading level&#x2014;while others count each page reference as an entry. In the following example, the indexer could charge for four entries if concepts are counted; if page references are counted, the number doubles:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt25"/>Hepatitis</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt26"/>types, 30-32, 41-43</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt27"/>causes, 33-38</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt28"/>risk factors, 44-47, 128</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt29"/>treatments, 100-105, 228-230, 321-323</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt30"/>Editor and indexer must agree on what constitutes an entry, as well as on the average number of entries per page. According to the ASI&#x2019;s 2004 Salary Survey, median rates per entry were &#x0024;.70 to &#x0024;.79, with a range of &#x0024;.50 to &#x0024;1.75 per entry. Again, these rates should be adjusted upward by about 15 percent to account for inflation since then.</p>
</section>
<section title="Per-Hour Rates">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt31"/>Per-Hour Rates</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt32"/>Indexers may also charge per hour. Per-hour charges may be appropriate for projects with unknowns. For example, creating a complex embedded index may require much more work than creating a traditional index, so compensation per hour rather than per page would better reflect the amount of work provided by the indexer. Per-hour compensation might also be appropriate for a project in which substantive editorial changes are anticipated, again requiring more work by the indexer.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt33"/>An experienced indexer will be able to estimate how long a project will take and should provide a range of hours expected for the project. If a limit on the number <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p100" title="100"/>of hours is required to stay within budget, this limit must be clearly understood by both editor and indexer. In 2004, per-hour rates ranged from &#x0024;20 to &#x0024;100, with a median range of &#x0024;30&#x2013;&#x0024;34.</p>
</section>
<section title="Flat Fee Arrangements">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt34"/>Flat Fee Arrangements</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt35"/>Occasionally, indexers will charge by the project. According to the ASI 2004 Salary Survey, this method is actually more common than charging by the entry, and slightly more common than charging by the hour. Of indexers surveyed, 36 percent charge by the project, while 31 percent charge by the hour, and only 20 percent charge by the entry. Per-project rates could be based on any of the methods discussed: per page, per entry, or per hour. Per-project rates are especially useful when an exact figure for indexing costs is required.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt36"/>When using any of these fee-setting methods, indexers may ask to see some sample pages from the project to get an idea of its complexity and density. Providing sample pages can greatly facilitate communication and help the indexer to provide a more accurate price for the index.</p>
</section>
<section title="Special Costs">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt37"/>Special Costs</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt38"/>Editors and authors should be aware that in addition to the fee for the indexing itself, there may also be other fees involved in setting the cost for the index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt39"/>Some indexers may charge a <em>cancellation</em> or <em>kill fee</em> if a promised job for which they have allowed time in their schedule is later reassigned to another indexer or never happens at all.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt40"/>Many indexers will charge a <em>rush fee,</em> which can be a flat fee or a percentage of the original rate, if they agree to take on a job with a greatly shortened turn around time.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt41"/>While indexers expect to fix errors in the index at no cost, they will ask for <em>special fees</em> for such items as re-indexing due to page changes or inputting author changes to the index.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Setting Deadlines">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-42"><strong><a id="pinpt42"/>SETTING DEADLINES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt43"/>An indexer&#x2019;s availability will depend on the deadline and amount of time allowed for indexing. Most professional indexers are booked weeks or months ahead, so contracting an indexer early in the production schedule will increase the chances of getting the indexer you want for the job.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt44"/>Of course, to a large extent, the deadline depends on the production schedule and print date. If the schedule has been slipping all along the way, with the author missing deadlines and the copyeditor running behind schedule, the time available for indexing may be compressed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt45"/>How long will it take the indexer to prepare the index? Like many questions about indexing, the answer is: It depends. It depends on the density and complexity <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p101" title="101"/>of the text, the indexer&#x2019;s workload, and the publisher&#x2019;s timely delivery of pages to the indexer. In general, two to four weeks should be allowed in the production schedule for indexing, depending on the length of the text. The following are general guidelines for indexing time, based on the number of pages in the text:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt46"/>Less than 300 pages: 2 weeks</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt47"/>300 to 500 pages: 3 weeks</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt48"/>500 to 750 pages: 1 month</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt49"/>Even for short works, indexers appreciate ample time, since they usually work on several projects at once. If indexers ask about flexibility in the schedule, they may simply be juggling multiple projects rather than taking more time to index your project. Deadline dates and any schedule flexibility must be clearly understood between editor and indexer. The indexer&#x2019;s deadline date should also allow the publisher or packager ample time for editing, typesetting, and reviewing the index before it goes to print.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt50"/>Of course schedules do not always stay on track, and editors may be forced to ask the indexer to meet a nearly impossible schedule. Many indexers are willing to take rush projects, although, as previously noted, some may charge a rush fee. When a schedule is tightly compressed, a higher fee is always a good incentive for an indexer to push to meet the deadline.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt51"/>According to Hans Wellisch in the second edition of his book, <em>Indexing from A to Z</em> (p. 37), &#x201C;Most disagreements between indexer and publisher arise on this matter of deadlines, and it is often not easy to arrive at a mutually agreeable compromise.&#x201D; However, having an established relationship with a professional indexer benefits everyone: The indexer is more willing to accommodate an established client, and the client knows that the indexer will do her best to meet a short deadline.</p>
</section>
<section title="Schedule Changes">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-43"><strong><a id="pinpt52"/>SCHEDULE CHANGES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt53"/>When schedules get off track, the editor should advise the indexer as soon as possible. Most indexers are constantly juggling schedules, so knowing that a project has slipped and will not start on the projected date may allow the indexer to take additional work or to start another project sooner.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt54"/>Because indexers often schedule more than one project at a time, a slipped schedule may affect the indexer&#x2019;s ability to meet a new deadline. Therefore, it is essential to have some wriggle room in the production schedule if possible. The ASI Recommended Indexing Agreement states, &#x201C;Should the delivery of page proofs to the Indexer be later than the date(s) specified in Attachment A, the delivery of the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p102" title="102"/>index to the Publisher may be delayed by the same number of days.&#x201D; This assures that the indexer will have ample time to create a quality index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt55"/>The same guidelines apply if a project runs ahead of schedule. Although less likely than slipped schedules, this does happen, and the indexer needs to be informed. An editor may send out a project for indexing early, only to learn that the indexer cannot complete it any sooner due to schedule conflicts. Again, good communication is key.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt56"/>If the production schedule has changed so much that the indexer is no longer available, the editor might ask for a referral to another indexer. Any work already completed by the original indexer should be compensated at the agreed upon rate.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt57"/>In the rare event that a project is cancelled, the editor should inform the indexer immediately. If there is a written contract or letter of intent between the publisher and indexer, a cancellation fee may be required. The ASI Recommended Indexing Agreement calls for a 15 percent cancellation fee from the party that terminates the contract, as well as a 14-day written notice of cancellation. If working with the indexer under a verbal agreement, a cancellation fee may still be appropriate, especially to pay for work already done.</p>
</section>
<section title="Editorial Changes">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-44"><strong><a id="pinpt58"/>EDITORIAL CHANGES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt59"/>Ideally, pages sent to the indexer are in final form with final folios (page numbers). Waiting to send pages to the indexer until the text is in final form with no further pagination changes avoids extra work or delays. Although it may seem practical to have the indexer start writing entries earlier in the production process, it duplicates effort to find those entries later to add page numbers.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt60"/>The indexer must be notified of any changes in text or page numbers so that corrections can be made. Sometimes the editor or author plans to make the changes after the index is submitted. This approach, however, is not advised. The indexer is the best person to make such changes, since he has software to facilitate a complete and thorough job and at the same time can adjust the index structure and cross-references.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt61"/>Should substantial editorial changes be required during the indexing process or after the index is completed, additional charges will most likely accrue, as was discussed in the section on fees. Examples of substantial changes that could require re-indexing include:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt62"/>Changes in page breaks</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt63"/>Rewrites of text or chapters</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt64"/>Reorganization of text or chapters</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt65"/>Changes in figure or illustration placement that cause material to reflow</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt66"/>Changes in page numbers</li></ul><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p103" title="103"/>
<p><a id="pinpt67"/>Some page number changes in the text can be easily fixed in the index. For example, if pages shift but the page breaks are held due to the addition or deletion of text, the indexer can usually correct the index using indexing software.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt68"/>For example, if a new figure is introduced on page 14, and the original text of that page is bumped to the next page so that the shift involves adding one to each page number (the integrity of the page itself was not disturbed and page breaks are retained), then indexing software has a feature that allows the indexer to add &#x201C;&#x002B;1&#x201D; to each page number starting with the original 14. It is a change done literally in a minute or less. Compare this to an editor making all the required changes manually&#x0021; Such changes may not add significantly to the cost of the index but may still require a significant review of the index to verify that page references are correct.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt69"/>Additional types of editorial changes that are easily fixed by the indexer include:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt70"/>Style and position of <em>see</em> and <em>see also</em> cross-references</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt71"/>Alphabetization order</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt72"/>Subheading order</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt73"/>Page range style</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt74"/>Capitalization</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt75"/>Index style (run-in versus indented)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt76"/>Punctuation</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt77"/>Index file format, such as supplying an RTF</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt78"/>(Adapted from the ASI Web site, Advice for Editors and Authors)</p>
<p><a id="pinpt79"/>Trying to make corrections in-house could waste time and result in a poor quality index; an editor could easily miss cross-references and double-postings in the index that are affected by changes in the text. The best practice is to bring any changes required in the index to the attention of the indexer. The indexer can make changes efficiently using indexing software.</p>
<section title="Revised Editions">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt80"/>Revised Editions</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt81"/>Updated editions of a text require updated indexes. The question is whether to revise the existing index or to re-index the revised text from scratch. There are three main factors that influence this decision: (1) the quality of the original index; (2) the extent of changes in the text; and (3) whether the original index still exists in electronic format and can thus be easily used by the indexer.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt82"/>Cost-effectiveness must also be considered. Although it may seem an easy task to revise an existing index, this is not always the case. It can actually take as much, if not more, time to revise an index than to write a new one.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p104" title="104"/>
<p><a id="pinpt83"/>Is the original index of poor quality? One assumes that the goal of revising a text is not only to update it, but also to improve it. If the original index is of poor quality, the decision may be made to re-index so as to upgrade the new edition. A poor-quality index cannot be elevated to a high-quality index without significant restructuring and reworking that can take just as long as creating a new index from scratch.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt84"/>How much has the text changed? If pagination (but not page breaks) has changed due to a few additions or deletions of text, and the previous index is worth using, revision may be appropriate. However, if there are multiple significant text changes that have altered the overall structure of the text or changed its overall argument in an appreciable way, then it should be re-indexed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt85"/>Is the old index available in electronic format? If so, is it in a format that the indexer can use? Most indexers use dedicated indexing software to create an index, but indexes are typically sent to the publisher in a word processing format. Conversion services can convert files from word processing formats to dedicated indexing software formats&#x2014;at a cost. However, if the publisher does not wish to cover conversion cost, the indexer may very well wish to pay for that herself, as she will save considerable time in not having to re-key entries. A simple Internet search for index conversion services will bring up any number of suitable companies offering such services.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt86"/>Another question to consider is who will be revising the index. Indexing is subjective, and different indexers have different styles and approaches. It may be time consuming for a new indexer to adhere to the approach of the previous indexer and to elegantly integrate newly indexed material into the original index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt87"/>In the end, it is the responsibility of the editor or author to determine whether the old index can be repurposed or if a revised index is required.</p>
</section>
<section title="Embedded Indexing">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt88"/>Embedded Indexing</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt89"/>When index terms are embedded (or tagged) in the actual electronic text files, editorial changes may appear to be less of a problem. For example, if page breaks change, the index term simply shifts to another page along with the text. When the document software produces the index, the term will be assigned a new page number or hyperlink, so the material does not need to be re-indexed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt90"/>It appears then that embedded indexing would require fewer index revisions, even if there are editorial changes. If the text is only shifting due to the addition of text or artwork, that may be true. However, real problems can occur when text is rewritten. If an author rewrites or revises text without regard to embedded index entries, codes may be deleted or misplaced in the process.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt91"/>These problems will not be apparent until a revised index is generated. It is probably safer to re-index a heavily revised book after making sure that all of the original tags are deleted. Trying to compare the old index with the new to identify <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p105" title="105"/>missing entries and then verifying that the concept is still discussed will be slower than a complete re-indexing.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Text Delivery">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-45"><strong><a id="pinpt92"/>TEXT DELIVERY</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt93"/>Once the scope of the work is defined and contractual decisions on fees and deadlines have been made, methods and timing of text delivery must be determined.</p>
<section title="Delivery Method">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt94"/>Delivery Method</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt95"/>How will the text be delivered to the indexer? Traditionally, indexers received page proofs as paper documents delivered via mail or courier. Most publishers use couriers such as UPS or Federal Express, although some may prefer the U.S. Postal Service if time allows. When sending hard-copy page proofs, editors should verify shipping addresses and ask whether to send the package for delivery with no signature required.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt96"/>Should the publisher want the pages returned after they are indexed or need a hard copy of the index, the editor should provide the indexer with instructions and account numbers for return shipping.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt97"/>It can be frustrating to both parties to lose time on a project due to failed delivery of pages. Luckily, today, indexers are more likely to receive pages in electronic format. Electronic delivery can save at least two days compared to traditional shipping methods and can allow the indexer to work up to the deadline if necessary. Electronic documents may be sent via email or FTP (file transfer protocol). See <a href="chapter010.xhtml">Chapter 10</a> for a complete discussion of electronic files.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt98"/>Some considerations when sending electronic documents include:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt99"/>File format (PDF, word processing, etc.)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt100"/>Attachment size limitations if sending files via email</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt101"/>Software and password requirements for downloading files via FTP</li></ul>
</section>
<section title="Delivery Timing">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt102"/>Delivery Timing</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt103"/>The timing of text delivery naturally affects the indexer&#x2019;s work. The editor should answer two critical questions for the indexer: (1) When will pages be delivered to the indexer, and (2) will all pages be delivered at once?</p>
<p><a id="pinpt104"/>The projected date for text delivery should be defined in the initial negotiations between editor and indexer. As previously discussed, if this date changes, the indexer must be informed and kept abreast of further scheduling changes. If initial delivery dates are not met, new deadline dates may need to be set.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p106" title="106"/>
<p><a id="pinpt105"/>The indexer also needs to know whether to expect delivery of the entire text on the initial delivery date or whether to expect partial pages delivered throughout the project. If receiving partial pages, the indexer should know in advance (if possible) approximately when to expect each batch, whether batches will be received in page-number order, and whether the bulk of the pages are coming at the end of the project. Part of the initial agreement may be that the indexer will start even if only part of the book is initially in hand.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt106"/>The projected delivery date for the final batch of pages should also be determined. The indexer&#x2019;s final deadline may require a specific amount of time between delivery of the final batch of pages to the indexer and delivery of the completed index to the publisher, rather than a specific due date. Even though it may not take long to index a final chapter, the indexer cannot complete a final edit of the index until all pages are indexed. There may also be issues in the index that cannot be resolved until complete pages are in hand.</p>
<p class="space-break"><a id="pinpt107"/>Hopefully this chapter has provided guidance on some of the important issues that arise as an indexing project is being negotiated. As in any commercial transaction, the editor or author needs to communicate clearly, honestly, and early with the indexer. Professional indexers can readily ask the proper questions and can assist you during the contract agreement process if you are unfamiliar with it.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
