<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p25" title="25"/>
<section title="Characteristics of a Good Index" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-3"><strong>Chapter 3</strong></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a id="pinpt2"/><a href="toc.xhtml#chap-3"><strong>Characteristics of a Good Index</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>One of the most important jobs an editor or author has to do in connection with an index is evaluate the index after it has been submitted by the indexer. However, this task can be complicated by the fact that editors and authors may have little training in how indexes are or should be constructed. Accordingly, they often complain they have little basis for evaluating the index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt4"/>This chapter discusses the specific characteristics of a good index. Looking for these characteristics can form the process for evaluating an index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>Additional information on various stylistic issues can be found in <a href="chapter004.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>, which also includes a checklist for evaluating indexes.</p>
<section title="Adherence to House Style">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-10"><strong><a id="pinpt6"/>ADHERENCE TO HOUSE STYLE</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>If a publisher has developed a specific in-house style for indexes, then the first layer of evaluation is to make sure that the index adheres to that style.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>A house style sheet should at a minimum cover the following issues and include an example of each:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt9"/>Capitalization (or not) of first word in headings</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt10"/>Alphabetization (word-by-word or letter-by-letter)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt11"/>Headnote (allowable or not)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt12"/>Preferred style (indented or paragraph/run-in style)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt13"/>Number of levels of subheadings allowed</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt14"/>Placement of cross-references (after main heading, as first subheading, or as last subheading)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt15"/>Handling of any special characters</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt16"/>Indexable material: Are the following to be included? If yes, is there any special treatment for their locators?
<p class="bl-1list"><a id="pinpt17"/>- Footnotes or endnotes</p>
<p class="bl-1list"><a id="pinpt18"/>- Appendices</p>
<p class="bl-1list"><a id="pinpt19"/>- Bibliography</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p26" title="26"/>
<p class="bl-1list"><a id="pinpt20"/>- Illustrations, maps, artwork, photographs</p>
<p class="bl-1list"><a id="pinpt21"/>- Tables, charts</p>
</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt22"/>If the index does not meet house style in some particular aspect, it is helpful to ask the indexer why he did not follow house style in that instance. The indexer should be able to point to some particular idiosyncrasy of the text in question that prompted the deviation from house style. Of course, it is advisable for the indexer to discuss with the editor or author the need for such a deviation when the issue first arises during the indexing process.</p>
</section>
<section title="Audience Suitability">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-11"><strong><a id="pinpt23"/>AUDIENCE SUITABILITY</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt24"/>The index should be suitable for its intended audience. That is, the index should use terminology that the intended audience would use.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt25"/>This is especially important when dealing with technical materials. For example, in a medical text, the term &#x201C;oncology&#x201D; would be preferred, while in a book for the general public, oncology might be too technical and &#x201C;cancer&#x201D; used instead.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt26"/>If there is any doubt about what terminology a book&#x2019;s audience uses, then use cross-references:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt27"/>felines. <em>See</em> cats</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt28"/>or double-postings (putting the same information in two places):</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt29"/>cats, 5, 28, 41</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt30"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt31"/>felines (cats), 5, 28, 41</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt32"/>In the case of the preceding double-posting, the qualifier &#x201C;(cats)&#x201D; after &#x201C;felines&#x201D; alerts users to the fact that an alternate term is used in the text.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt33"/>In addition to using audience-appropriate terminology, an index should use a structure that is also appropriate for its intended audience. For example, an index intended to be used by elementary school students should probably not have six or seven levels of subheadings.</p>
</section>
<section title="Treatment of Metatopic">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-12"><strong><a id="pinpt34"/>TREATMENT OF METATOPIC</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt35"/>In her book <em>Facing the Text</em> (2004)<em>,</em> author Do Mi Stauber discusses the idea of a book&#x2019;s &#x201C;metatopic,&#x201D; that is, the overarching subject that the book is generally about. The metatopic needs to be handled carefully in the index.</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p27" title="27"/>
<p><a id="pinpt36"/>For example, in a book about whales, the entire index could conceivably contain one entry for &#x201C;whales,&#x201D; with the entire remainder of the index consisting of various subheadings and sub-subheadings. Obviously, such an index is useless to the reader. Accordingly, the metatopic becomes the assumed subject of the index. Hence, the index to our hypothetical book about whales would be better if it used such main headings as &#x201C;communication,&#x201D; &#x201C;diet,&#x201D; &#x201C;mating habits,&#x201D; &#x201C;migration,&#x201D; and so forth.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt37"/>By default, in this hypothetical &#x201C;whale&#x201D; index, diet means the diet of whales, and migration means the migration of whales. The only entries that should be under the heading of &#x201C;whales&#x201D; itself are general entries that would fit nowhere else or would not make sense as their own main heading, such as &#x201C;definition of&#x201D; or &#x201C;description of.&#x201D;</p>
</section>
<section title="Subject Coverage">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-13"><strong><a id="pinpt38"/>SUBJECT COVERAGE</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt39"/>Check the index to make sure that all expected topics are included; the index should provide appropriate coverage of those discussions.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt40"/>While the index should certainly cover all of the substantial topics in the text, as well as subsidiary topics, that coverage should reflect the relative length at which each topic is discussed. For example, if there are two chapters of approximately equal length, but one chapter topic has five entries in the index, and the second chapter topic has 57 entries, that may indicate a problem with the balance of the index&#x2019;s subject coverage.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt41"/>Comparing the index with the table of contents is one way to do a quick coverage check.</p>
</section>
<section title="Exhaustivity">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-14"><strong><a id="pinpt42"/>EXHAUSTIVITY</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt43"/>In addition to all the major subjects, all minor subjects should be included in the index at an appropriate level of coverage. However, the index should <em>not</em> include references to passing mentions, that is, mere mentions of the existence of something that do not provide readers with at least one fact that they might want to know. Scene-setting or time markers are examples of passing mentions.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt44"/>While in general, exhaustivity of indexes is preferred, the depth of indexing is directly related to the space available for an index. Clearly, allowing only four pages for the index to an 800-page encyclopedia is doing its readers a disservice. The exhaustivity in such a brief index could not come close to the level that would really make it useful.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt45"/>In discussing ways to add space for the index, Clive Pine notes on his Web site (<a href="http://www.cpynebookindexing.com/length&#x005F;of&#x005F;index.htm">www.cpynebookindexing.com/length&#x005F;of&#x005F;index.htm</a>) that: &#x201C;One or two blank pages usually found between the end of the text and the index might be used for the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p28" title="28"/>index. Just one page will make a big difference in index depth and usefulness.&#x201D; Indeed, depending on the specific page size, adding one page may be adding a hundred or more pieces of information to the index.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt46"/><a href="chapter005.xhtml">Chapter 5</a> discusses the issue of index length specifically in greater detail.</p>
</section>
<section title="Differentiated Locators">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-15"><strong><a id="pinpt47"/>DIFFERENTIATED LOCATORS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt48"/>There is nothing more daunting to readers than long strings of undifferentiated locators, such as this example from the index to <em>Maryland: A History of its People</em> by Suzanne Ellery Green Chappelle, et al.:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt49"/>Cereal crops, 10, 16&#x2013;17, 23, 33&#x2013;34, 36&#x2013;37, 40, 42&#x2013;43, 74&#x2013;75, 81, 87, 91, 109, 112&#x2013;117, 119, 124, 135, 140&#x2013;141, 143, 173, 200&#x2013;201, 221, 232&#x2013;33, 273&#x2013;74</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt50"/>The problem is that no user (or at least the vast majority of users) will ever take to time to visit each of those pages if they are looking for a specific fact about cereal crops in Maryland.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt51"/>A good index will use appropriate subheadings to supply the context for specific mentions if there are more than a small number of references (say five or six) to a single topic.</p>
</section>
<section title="Well-Formed Subheadings">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-16"><strong><a id="pinpt52"/>WELL-FORMED SUBHEADINGS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt53"/>Subheadings give the specific context in which the main heading is discussed at a particular location in the text. Accordingly, the indexer should clearly establish the relationship between the heading and subheading.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt54"/>Sometimes the relationship is obvious:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt55"/>alabaster</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt56"/>hardness, 12</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt57"/>But in other cases, the heading and subheading need clarification:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt58"/>Napoleon</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt59"/>Russia, 128, 273</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt60"/>Here the exact nature of the relationship between Napoleon and Russia is unclear. Is the text about Napoleon <em>in</em> Russia? Is it about Napoleon&#x2019;s <em>thoughts or views on</em> Russia? There is no way to tell with this single-word subheading.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt61"/>Often it only takes the inclusion of a preposition to clarify the relationship:</p>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p29" title="29"/><div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt62"/>Napoleon</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt63"/>in Russia, 128, 273</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt64"/>In a well designed index, the heading/subheading relationship will always be clear and obvious.</p>
</section>
<section title="Headnotes">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-17"><strong><a id="pinpt65"/>HEADNOTES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt66"/>Whenever an index includes any nonstandard usages or employs special typography to indicate certain types of references, then the index should include an explanatory headnote, which appears on the first page of the index. Headnotes can consist of a single simple statement:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt67"/>References to major discussions are in bold.</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt68"/>Or, they may be quite complex. The headnote to the index to Latham and Matthew&#x2019;s edition of the <em>Pepys Diary</em> (London: Bell &#x0026; Hyman, 1970&#x2013;1983) is four and a half pages long.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt69"/>What is important is that a headnote allows the user to understand any unusual features that are included in the index or to know particular information about how the index was compiled that might affect use of the index. For example:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pq-noindent"><a id="pinpt70"/>This index uses Portuguese spellings of all place names.</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt71"/>or</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pq-noindent"><a id="pinpt72"/>This index is alphabetized on a letter-by-letter basis (ignoring spaces between words).</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt73"/>Headnotes should cover the following information, where appropriate:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt74"/>Special typography</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt75"/>Use of special abbreviations</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt76"/>Issues of inclusion or exclusion, e.g., place names not indexed</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt77"/>Special subject matter treatment, e.g., all information on Virginia Stephens will be found under her married name (Virginia Woolf)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt78"/>Explanation of how complex locators are formed, e.g., year-volume-page</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt79"/>Method of alphabetization<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p30" title="30"/></li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt80"/>References to other indexes, if the volume contains more than one</li></ul>
</section>
<section title="Double-Posting">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-18"><strong><a id="pinpt81"/>DOUBLE-POSTING</strong></h1>
<section title="Synonyms">
<h2 class="level2a"><strong><a id="pinpt82"/>Synonyms</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt83"/>As was mentioned previously under the topic of audience suitability, good indexes use double-posting. That is, the same subheads and locators are duplicated under two or more different terms that convey the same concept.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt84"/>M. Ivonen noted in a 1995 paper (&#x201C;Consistency in the selection of search concepts and search terms,&#x201D; <em>Information Processing &#x0026; Management</em> 31[2], 180&#x2013;186) that users employ different terminology to identify the same concepts. As a result multiple access points are important in ensuring that users find the information they are looking for.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt85"/>Because double-posting does increase the size of an index, it may sometimes be preferable to use cross-references. See the cross-references section that follows for more details.</p>
</section>
<section title="Complex Topics">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt86"/>Complex Topics</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt87"/>In addition, double-posting should also be used in cases where two related concepts are discussed. For example, if the text discusses the topic of class in Britain, the two ideas (the subject, &#x201C;class,&#x201D; and the location, &#x201C;Britain&#x201D;) should both appear in the index, with the heading and subheading flipped:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt88"/>Britain</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt89"/>class in, 176</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt90"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt91"/>class</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt92"/>in Britain, 176</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt93"/>For especially complex subjects, as often happens in scholarly works or encyclopedias, triple- or quadruple-posting is not unusual:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt94"/>Aristotle</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt95"/>soul, views on, comparison with Plato&#x2019;s</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt96"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt97"/>Plato</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt98"/>soul, views on, comparison with Aristotle&#x2019;s</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt99"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt100"/>soul</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt101"/>comparison of Plato&#x2019;s and Aristotle&#x2019;s views on</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p31" title="31"/>
<p><a id="pinpt102"/>In such cases, it is important that all of the locators match in each of these parallel entries.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Appropriate Cross-References">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-19"><strong><a id="pinpt103"/>APPROPRIATE CROSS-REFERENCES</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt104"/>Cross-references comprise the syndetic structure of the index, that is, the connective tissue that helps build the structure of the index. A good index will include an appropriate number of cross-references, which come in two flavors: <em>see</em> references and <em>see also</em> references. An index with no cross-references at all should be viewed with suspicion.</p>
<section title="See References">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><em><a id="pinpt105"/>See</em> References</strong></h2>
<p><em><a id="pinpt106"/>See</em> references tell readers that the concept they are looking for is discussed in the text, but that the index (and the text) uses an alternate term for the concept. The reader will be able to find information in the index by looking at the referenced term. The term used in the index is referred to as the &#x201C;preferred&#x201D; or &#x201C;postable&#x201D; term, while the unused term is often called an &#x201C;entry term.&#x201D;</p>
<p><a id="pinpt107"/>Note that a <em>see</em> reference never contains locators; its use is to direct readers to the place in the index that will lead to information in the text. (Because indexing is context-based, it reflects guidelines rather than rules. However this is one of the few rules applicable to <em>all</em> contexts.)</p>
<p><a id="pinpt108"/>As already noted, <em>see</em> references may be used in place of double-posting to save space, or when the information presented under the preferred term is so extensive that it would unbalance the index to double-post the entire series of subheadings and locators under additional terms.</p>
<section title="Synonyms">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt109"/>Synonyms</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt110"/>A good indexer will try to identify terms that users might use for concepts discussed in the text and then employ those alternate terms as additional entry points in the index.</p>
<p><em><a id="pinpt111"/>See</em> references take the following form:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt112"/>a. <em>See</em> b</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt113"/>where &#x201C;a&#x201D; is the unused term and &#x201C;b&#x201D; is the preferred term.</p>
</section>
<section title="Names">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt114"/>Names</em></strong></h3>
<p><em><a id="pinpt115"/>See</em> references are often used in the cases of names, for example:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt116"/>Stephens, Virginia. <em>See</em> Woolf, Virginia</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p32" title="32"/>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt117"/>which leads the user from the maiden name to this individual&#x2019;s married name, which is used as the main heading in the index for this person.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt118"/>Name <em>see</em> references may also be used in the case of pseudonyms:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt119"/>Twain, Mark. <em>See</em> Clemens, Samuel</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt120"/>or in the case of countries that change names:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt121"/>Yugoslavia. <em>See</em> Bosnia-Herzegovina; Croatia; Macedonia; Montenegro; Serbia; Slovenia</p>
</div>
</section>
<section title="Generic References">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt122"/>Generic References</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt123"/>In some cases, generic cross-references may be used, which lead readers not to a specific entry, but to a series or type of entries, for example:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt124"/>American Indians. <em>See names of specific tribes</em></p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt125"/>It is then up to the user to identify the appropriate entries to look for. Depending on the sophistication of the user or the general audience, it may be more helpful to provide a direct <em>see</em> reference, even if the list of entry terms spans several lines:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt126"/>American Indians. <em>See</em> Apache; Cherokee; Choctaw; Hopi; Iroquois; Lakota; Lumbee; Navajo; Oglala; Pueblo; Sioux; Ute; Zuni</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt127"/>A good index will also use <em>see</em> references for the secondary concept in headings that comprise two related but opposite concepts, such as &#x201C;life and death.&#x201D; An appropriate <em>see</em> reference would be:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt128"/>death. <em>See</em> life and death</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt129"/>Because users generally scan an index looking for terms, they may not always catch a secondary term that does not appear at the left margin.</p>
</section>
<section title="Acronyms">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt130"/>Acronyms</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt131"/>Terms such as UNICEF and UN are acronyms. The indexer should use the generally accepted form of the acronym and then refer readers to its alternate:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt132"/>IMF. <em>See</em> International Monetary Fund</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p33" title="33"/>
</section>
<section title="Inverted Phrases">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt133"/>Inverted Phrases</em></strong></h3>
<p><a id="pinpt134"/>When a term consists of a phrase that can be logically inverted, include an appropriate <em>see</em> reference:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt135"/>malpractice, medical. <em>See</em> medical malpractice</p>
</div>
</section>
<section title="See Also References">
<h3 class="level3"><strong><em><a id="pinpt136"/>See Also</em> References</strong></h3>
<p><em><a id="pinpt137"/>See also</em> references let the user know that additional related information is included at a number of other places in the index. A good index will identify related concepts for the reader by providing appropriate <em>see also</em> references, leading users to additional relevant information given under terms that they might not think of immediately. <em>See also</em> references take the form:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt138"/>a, 12, 48. <em>See also</em> b; c; d</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt139"/>where &#x201C;a&#x201D; is the referring term and &#x201C;b,&#x201D; &#x201C;c,&#x201D; and &#x201C;d&#x201D; are the objects of the reference. Note that the <em>see also</em> reference comes after any locators.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt140"/>If the entry has subheadings, the <em>see also</em> reference may be placed (1) after the main heading, (2) as the first subheading, or (3) as the last subheading:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt141"/>Native Americans. <em>See also</em> politics and Native Americans; trade and Native Americans; women, Native American</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt142"/>activism, 341&#x2013;342</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt143"/>as artists, 276&#x2013;278</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt144"/>or</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt145"/>Native Americans.</p>
<p class="pqph2"><em><a id="pinpt146"/>See also</em> politics and Native Americans; trade and Native Americans; women, Native American</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt147"/>activism, 341&#x2013;342</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt148"/>as artists, 276&#x2013;278</p>
</div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="pinpt149"/>or</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt150"/>Native Americans</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt151"/>activism, 341&#x2013;342</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt152"/>as artists, 276&#x2013;278</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt153"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt154"/>as writers</p>
<p class="pqph2"><em><a id="pinpt155"/>See also</em> politics and Native Americans; trade and Native Americans; women, Native American</p>
</div><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="p34" title="34"/>
<p><a id="pinpt156"/>Placement up front can help trigger ideas for the users. End placement serves as a &#x201C;last resort&#x201D; for users unable to find relevant information in the current array.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt157"/>In general, <em>see also</em> references should lead users from a more general index entry to more specific index entries, as well as related information at the same level of generality:</p>
<div class="pull-quote">
<p class="pqph1"><a id="pinpt158"/>history</p>
<p class="pqph2"><a id="pinpt159"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="pqph2"><em><a id="pinpt160"/>See also</em> historians; medieval period; Renaissance</p>
</div>
<p><a id="pinpt161"/>However, there is some disagreement on this issue; a significant number of indexers hold that <em>see also</em> references should work in both directions: general to specific and specific to general.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Cross-Reference Validation">
<h2 class="level2"><strong><a id="pinpt162"/>Cross-Reference Validation</strong></h2>
<p><a id="pinpt163"/>As part of an index review, the editor should examine the cross-references for the following problems:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt164"/>Blind cross-references (which refer the reader to nonexistent headings)</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt165"/>Circular cross-references:
<p class="lipqph1"><a id="pinpt166"/>bovines. <em>See</em> cows</p>
<p class="lipqph1"><a id="pinpt167"/>&#x2026;</p>
<p class="lipqph1"><a id="pinpt168"/>cows. <em>See</em> bovines</p>
</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt169"/>Wrong cross-reference type: <em>see</em> instead of <em>see also</em> and vice versa</li></ul>
</section>
</section>
<section title="Index Reviews">
<h1 class="level1" id="h1-20"><strong><a id="pinpt170"/>INDEX REVIEWS</strong></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt171"/>In addition to ensuring that an index adheres to the preceding characteristics, there are a number of reviews that an editor should perform to ensure a high quality index:</p>
<ul class="ulindent" epub:type="list">
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt172"/>Verify alphabetical order of all entries</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt173"/>Proofread the index for correct spelling</li>
<li class="litop"><a id="pinpt174"/>Spot-check a certain percentage of index entries to be sure that the designated pages actually discuss the referring subject</li></ul>
<p><a id="pinpt175"/>See <a href="chapter009.xhtml">Chapter 9</a> for additional details on editing a completed index.</p>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
