<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Indexing for Editors and Authors: A Practical Guide to Understanding Indexes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body"><a id="pv"/>
<h1 class="foreword-title"><a id="pinpt1"/><a href="toc.xhtml#fore-1"><strong>Foreword</strong></a></h1>
<p><a id="pinpt2"/>I&#x2019;m grateful to be asked to write a foreword to this well-written and well-named book, for I might otherwise not have had the rich and rewarding experience of reading it. So many books are published every year that it&#x2019;s impossible to keep up with them all, but this is one I&#x2019;d be very sorry to have missed.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt3"/>When I started out in publishing, back when dinosaurs ruled the earth, about half the books we worked on were set in Linotype, and plenty of seasoned professionals were happy to assure me that it would be with us forever, phototypesetting being just another flash in the pan. Well, hot metal has been history for some time now, and mainframe-based composition joined it awhile back too, for that matter, yet here we are, still making books&#x2014;Marshall McLuhan notwithstanding. Five and a half centuries of the printed book have brought more changes to the methods and tools and techniques than anyone outside the book business could possibly imagine, but the process of making books remains remarkably the same. Writing, editing, designing, setting, proofreading, correcting, printing, distributing, and&#x2014;for some books at least&#x2014;indexing.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt4"/>Most of us in the industry do our job as well as we can, day in, day out, but a small minority take the trouble to write down what they&#x2019;ve learned for the benefit of the rest of us. Of course, their works get dated as new ways of doing things come along, but the best ones still have a lot to say even after time goes by. To name the first examples that come to mind, there are Marshal Lee&#x2019;s <em>Bookmaking: Editing, Design, Production</em>, Jason Epstein&#x2019;s <em>Book Business: Publishing Past, Present, and Future</em>, Rich Hendel&#x2019;s <em>On Book Design</em>, Alexander Lawson&#x2019;s <em>Anatomy of a Typeface</em>, Herbert Bailey&#x2019;s <em>The Art and Science of Book Publishing</em>, and as you&#x2019;re reading this, you are probably wondering why I left your own favorites off the list. For my money, this book is another candidate for consideration for your working bookshelf, somewhere near <em>Chicago</em> and <em>Words into Type</em>.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt5"/>As its title makes clear, this book is intended for editors and authors, but I suspect many indexers will learn quite a bit from it as well. I don&#x2019;t think I&#x2019;ve ever picked up a work on design or editing without learning something from it, and we all have gaps in our knowledge of the field. In the compass of 100&#x002B; pages, Fred Leise, Kate Mertes, and Nan Badgett have laid out the essentials of indexing: the who, what, when, where, why, and how&#x2014;and the how much, as well. Among many other things, I&#x2019;m impressed by the deftness of the redundancy of the book. Just as an index has built-in redundancy in the form of cross-references to save the reader time and effort, so they have the occasional dash of repeated information, <a id="pvi"/>usually with just the proper twist, to make sure we get it and get it right: what an index is; what kinds there are; what makes a good one; how many there need to be; how the index should look and how long it should be; how to get an index made and what form it should take. All these topics and more are thoroughly, expertly, and even entertainingly covered, with plenty of specific examples and illustrations of every aspect of indexes you could expect, and probably a few more besides.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt6"/>And if you think the subject is dry or mundane, this book will help you get over that notion in a hurry. For example, it probably wouldn&#x2019;t occur to most people that fiction might be indexed. As this book makes clear, an index usually should not be written by the author of the book, but a great counterexample is Vladimir Nabokov&#x2019;s index to <em>Pale Fire.</em> If you think you know what an index is&#x2014;just an alphabetical list of topics, along with the pages where they&#x2019;re mentioned&#x2014;then consider the many different kinds of indexes: indexes of names, of places, of subjects; indexes of maps and atlases and directories. Consider, too, such things as the effect of the trim size of the book on the structure and format of the index or indexes. From the basic principles of indexing, such as the choice of alphabetizing system or how best to handle the subject of a book itself (the index&#x2019;s &#x201C;metasubject&#x201D;), to the details of the types of software that indexers use to facilitate the work or how best to find the indexer you need for your specific project, the book is loaded with relevant information, as up to date as a constantly changing world will allow.</p>
<p><a id="pinpt7"/>I could go on, but you get the point. Page for page, this book delivers, and after reading it for the first time, you&#x2019;ll never think about indexes, indexing, or indexers quite the same way again. After all, indexing shares one thing in common with editing, design, typesetting, proofreading, printing, and so forth. It&#x2019;s basically invisible to the reader, except when something goes wrong. Even more than these other functions, it seems to me that indexing resembles translation: If a reader thinks about it at all, he or she probably considers it one of those things that &#x201C;just happens.&#x201D; Or, worse yet, something that nowadays is probably computerized. If you&#x2019;ve ever seen a totally computerized translation, you know that we aren&#x2019;t quite ready to dispense with the human element. Similarly, an index probably should not contain an entry such as &#x201C;Wittgenstein, Ludwig: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, &#x2026;&#x201D;</p>
<p><a id="pinpt8"/>Someone once said&#x2014;and I&#x2019;ll have you know that the Internet has been absolutely useless at helping me find out who it was&#x2014;that we know so much more today about building materials and construction techniques than did the master masons who put up the great cathedrals, and that we understand so much less. After you&#x2019;ve read this book, not only will you know more about indexes and books than you ever did, you&#x2019;ll also understand a great deal more.</p>
<p class="right-top"><a id="pinpt9"/>&#x2014;Dan Kirklin</p>
<a id="pvii"/>
<p class="noindent1-top"><span class="smallfont"><a id="pinpt10"/>Dan Kirklin is a graduate of Indiana University and taught English and German at the secondary level for five years before becoming a proofreader-copyeditor at Bobbs-Merrill, and then an editor at Bobbs-Merrill Educational Publishing. He later worked as an editor, designer, indexer, programmer, and packager at Alexander Graphics Ltd., notably producing for Harper &#x0026; Row <em>The New Dictionary of American Slang</em> and a revised edition of Benet&#x2019;s <em>Reader&#x2019;s Encyclopedia,</em> for which he wrote the data-processing program HARLOT (Harper And Row Lists Of Terms). Dan was managing editor at Hackett Publishing Company for 10 years and supervised production of nearly 200 titles, including the HPC edition of <em>The Complete Works of Plato.</em> Since 1998 he has been managing editor at Liberty Fund, a private educational foundation, which publishes more than 20 new and classic titles a year in history, economics, political theory, law, and other subjects.</span></p>
<a id="pviii"/>
</div>
</body>
</html>
