<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h4 id="basic_templates_of_page_formats">2.2.2 <span class="heading"><span id="en-subheading1_1_2">Basic Templates of Page Formats</span></span></h4><p>Generally, books use only one template for <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.page-format">page format</a>, whereas magazines often use several templates.</p><p>Although in books, as will be mentioned in c of <a class="sec_ref" href="kihonhanmen_and_examples_of_real_page_format.xhtml#kihonhanmen_and_examples_of_real_page_format">2.2.5 Kihon-hanmen and Examples of Real Page Format</a>, there tends to be one template for the page format, the basic pattern is typically adapted. For example, the <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.table-of-contents">table of contents</a>
may contain small modifications. Furthermore, there are many examples of <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.index">indexes</a>
with a different page format than the basic page format, and vertically set books often have indexes in horizontal writing mode and sometimes multiple columns.
This still holds true where the goal is to make the size of the <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.hanmen">hanmen</a>
for indexes close to the size of hanmen in the basic page format.</p><p>Magazines gather articles of different kinds. Often the page format will differ depending on the content of the article. For example, one part may have 9 point character size and 3 columns, and another part 8 point character size and 4 columns.</p></body></html>