<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><div class="abstract">

<h2 id="abstract">Abstract</h2>
<p>This document describes requirements for general Japanese layout realized with technologies like CSS, SVG and XSL-FO. The
document is mainly based on a standard for Japanese layout, JIS X 4051, however, it also addresses  areas which are not covered
by JIS X 4051. This second version of the document contains a significant amount of additional information related to hanmen design, such as handling headings, placement of illustrations and tables, handling of notes and reference marks, etc.</p>
</div><div class="status">
<h2 id="status">Status of this Document</h2>
<p><em>This section describes the status of this document at the time of its publication. Other documents may supersede this document.
A list of current W3C publications and the latest revision of this technical report can be found in the W3C technical reports
index at <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/">http://www.w3.org/TR/</a>.</em></p>
<p>This is a second version of a document that describes requirements for general Japanese layout realized with technologies like CSS, SVG, XSL-FO and eBook standards. The
	document is mainly based on a standard for Japanese layout, JIS X 4051, however, it also addresses areas which are not covered
	by JIS X 4051. 
This second version of the document contains a significant amount of additional information related to hanmen design, such as handling headings, placement of illustrations and tables, handling of notes and reference marks, etc.</p>
<p>This document was developed by participants in the <a href="http://www.w3.org/2007/02/japanese-layout/">Japanese Layout Task Force</a>, with input from four W3C Working Groups, <a href="http://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/">CSS</a>, <a href="http://www.w3.org/International/core/">Internationalization Core</a>, <a href="http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/">SVG</a> and <a href="http://www.w3.org/Style/XSL/">XSL</a>.</p>
<p>The document was originally authored in Japanese, then translated to English under the guidance of the Japanese authors. In order to reach the largest international audience, the W3C works in English, so this English version of the document is the authoritative version. However, the <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-jlreq-20120403/ja/">Japanese</a> version of this document is also available.</p>
<p>Feedback about the content of this document can be sent to <a href="mailto:public-i18n-cjk@w3.org?subject=%5Bjlreq%5D">public-i18n-cjk@w3.org</a>. Use "[JLReq]" in the subject line of your email, followed by a brief subject. The <a href="http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-cjk/">archive</a> for this list is public. </p>
<p>Publication as a Working Group Note does not imply endorsement by the W3C Membership. This document may be updated, replaced or obsoleted by other documents at any time. Therefore, quotes or references to specific information in the document should include the publication date of this version, 03 April 2012. It is inappropriate to cite this document as other than a Working Group Note, which is not an endorsed W3C Recommendation.</p>
<p>This document was produced by groups operating under the <a href="http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/">5 February
2004 W3C Patent Policy</a>. W3C maintains a public list of disclosures for
each group: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2004/01/pp-impl/32061/status">CSS Working Group disclosures</a>,
<a href="http://www.w3.org/2004/01/pp-impl/32113/status">i18n Core Working Group disclosures</a>,
<a href="http://www.w3.org/2004/01/pp-impl/19480/status">SVG Working Group disclosures</a>, and
<a href="http://www.w3.org/2004/01/pp-impl/19552/status">XSL Working Group disclosures</a>. Those pages also include
instructions for disclosing a patent.  An individual
who has actual knowledge of a patent which the individual believes contains <a href="http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#def-essential">Essential Claim(s)</a> must disclose the information in accordance with <a href="http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#sec-Disclosure">section 6 of the W3C Patent Policy</a>.</p>
</div></body></html>