<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h4 id="positioning_methods_for_each_character_class">3.9.3 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading2_9_3">Positioning Methods for each Character Class</span></span></h4><p>For each character class it is possible to describe whether the characters may appear at the line head or line end or not,
            the positioning method for the line head or line end positions (if available), the amount of space between sequences of several
            characters, and the combination with character classes before or after the characters (in a 2 dimensional table). In JIS X
            4051 this is shown in table 5 "Amount of space (between characters)".
          </p><table class="t_note">
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 1)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>For the presentation as a two dimensional table, it becomes necessary for each class to have separate items about "line head"
                 (the column about the character classes appearing before) and "line end" (the column about the character classes appearing
                 after). If it is forbidden that the characters of the class appear at the line head or line end, JIS X 4051 uses an "X" mark
                 in the columns for "line head" and "line end".
              </p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table><p>Also, it can be defined for each combination of the character classes (in a two dimensional table) whether the characters
            of classes appearing in sequence allow for  a line break between them, or whether it is possible during line
            adjustment processing to add inter character space between them. In JIS X 4051 these items are also shown in a two dimensional table.
            Table 6 shows whether a line break is possible, and table 7 shows if it is possible to add inter character space.
          </p><table class="t_note">
					<tr>
						<td class="ft" rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>(note 1)</p>
							
						</td>
						<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
							
								
								<p>It is also possible to define for each combination of character classes whether it is possible to apply kerning during line
                 adjustment processing for character classes appearing in sequence. However, JIS X 4051 does not provide this information as
                 a two dimensional table, but only as a textual description.
              </p>
							
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table><p>The width, in principle, of the space between each character or symbol in character classes used in this document is described in the table of <a class="sec_ref" href="spacing_between_characters.xhtml#spacing_between_characters">Appendix B Spacing between Characters</a>.</p><p>The combinations of adjacent characters and symbols in character classes used in this document,  and where text is breakable or not, is described in the table of <a class="sec_ref" href="possibilities_for_linebreaking_between_characters.xhtml#possibilities_for_linebreaking_between_characters">Appendix C Possibilities for  Line-breaking between Characters</a>.</p><p>The width of spaces between each character or symbol in character classes used in this document, and which can be reduced, is described in the table of <a class="sec_ref" href="opportunities_for_intercharacter_space_reduction_during_line_adjustment.xhtml#opportunities_for_intercharacter_space_reduction_during_line_adjustment">Appendix D Opportunities for Inter-character Space Reduction during Line Adjustment</a>. Also,  expandable spaces are described in the table of <a class="sec_ref" href="opportunities_for_intercharacter_space_expansion_during_line_adjustment.xhtml#opportunities_for_intercharacter_space_expansion_during_line_adjustment">Appendix E Opportunities for  Inter-character Space Expansion during Line Adjustment</a>.</p></body></html>