<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta charset="UTF-8"/><title>Requirements for Japanese Text Layout</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/W3C-WG-NOTE.css"/></head><body><h3 id="the_structure_of_this_document">1.4 <span class="heading"><span class="index" id="en-subheading0_4">The Structure of This Document</span></span></h3><p>This document consists of four parts:</p><dl>
		      <dt/>
            <dd>
            
            <p><span class="sec_ref">1 Introduction</span></p></dd>
            <dd>
            
            <p><span class="sec_ref">2 Basics of Japanese Composition</span></p></dd>
            <dd>
            
            <p><span class="sec_ref">3 Line Composition</span></p></dd>
            <dd>
            
            <p><span class="sec_ref">4 Positioning of Headings, Notes, Illustrations, Tables and Paragraphs</span></p></dd>
         </dl><p><a class="sec_ref" href="basics_of_japanese_composition.xhtml#basics_of_japanese_composition">2 Basics of Japanese Composition</a> explains the characteristics of letters and symbols which are used in Japanese composition, their differences in <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.vertical-writing-mode">vertical writing mode</a> and <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.horizontal-writing-mode">horizontal writing mode</a>, and the design and adaptation of the <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.kihon-hanmen">kihon-hanmen</a>.</p><p><a class="sec_ref" href="line-composition.xhtml#line-composition">3 Line Composition</a>
explains line composition
methods for <a class="characterClass" href="cl-19.xhtml#cl-19">ideographic (cl-19)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-15.xhtml#cl-15">hiragana (cl-15)</a>, <a class="characterClass" href="cl-16.xhtml#cl-16">katakana (cl-16)</a> characters and <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.punctuation-marks">punctuation marks</a>, together with ruby
(inter-line pronunciation information and annotation) and <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.japanese-and-western-mixed-text-composition">Japanese and Western mixed text composition</a>, i.e. mixtures of Japanese characters and <a class="characterClass" href="cl-27.xhtml#cl-27">Western characters (cl-27)</a>.</p><p>
				<a class="sec_ref" href="hanmen-design.xhtml#hanmen-design">4 Positioning of Headings, Notes, Illustrations, Tables and Paragraphs</a> describes
				construction methods and composition methods for <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.heading">headings</a>, <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.note">notes</a>, <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.illustrations">illustrations</a> and <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.table">tables</a>.</p><p>In principle, characters in Japanese composition are designed in a square box and positioned without spaces, i.e. <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.solid-setting">solid setting</a>. This is taken as a basic premise for the design of the <a class="termref2nd" href="terminology.xhtml#term.kihon-hanmen">kihon-hanmen</a>, the basis of book layout. Furthermore, to understand Japanese layout, it is important to understand the design of the kihon-hanmen and how to position illustrations, characters, symbols etc. in relation to it. Hence, <a class="sec_ref" href="basics_of_japanese_composition.xhtml#basics_of_japanese_composition">2 Basics of Japanese Composition</a>
describes in detail the design of the kihon-hanmen and its dependencies. In particular, <a class="sec_ref" href="page_wise_arrangement_of_kihonhanmen_elements.xhtml#page_wise_arrangement_of_kihonhanmen_elements">2.5 Page wise Arrangement of Kihon-hanmen Elements</a>
 provides prototypical patterns for the three guidelines listed after this paragraph: what recommendations need to be strictly taken into account, and what exceptions are possible. (The goal of these explanations is an understanding of Japanese composition. Since detailed explanations of the various elements of the kihon-hanmen are given in <a class="sec_ref" href="line-composition.xhtml#line-composition">3 Line Composition</a>
and <a class="sec_ref" href="hanmen-design.xhtml#hanmen-design">4 Positioning of Headings, Notes, Illustrations, Tables and Paragraphs</a>, some explanations are repeated.)</p><ol>
				<li>
           
            
            <p>Keep to the basic size and column numbers of <a class="termref" href="terminology.xhtml#term.multi-column-format">multi-column format</a> that were decided upon in setting up the <a class="termref2nd" href="terminology.xhtml#term.kihon-hanmen">kihon-hanmen</a>, with some exceptions.</p>
           
         </li>
				<li>
           
            
            <p>Keep to the line positions that were decided upon in setting up the <a class="termref2nd" href="terminology.xhtml#term.kihon-hanmen">kihon-hanmen</a>, with some exceptions.</p>
           
         </li>
				<li>
           
            
            <p>Keep to the letter positions that were decided upon in setting up the <a class="termref2nd" href="terminology.xhtml#term.kihon-hanmen">kihon-hanmen</a>, with some exceptions.</p>
           
         </li>
			</ol></body></html>