<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    <title>&#x00b6;630-850 Abatement of gifts</title>
    <meta name="cch-doctype" content="commentary" />
    <meta name="title" content="&#x00b6;630-850 Abatement of gifts" />
    <meta name="date" content="2022-10-10" />
    <meta name="publisher" content="Wolters Kluwer (UK) Ltd" />
    <meta name="doc-name" content="630-850" />
    <meta name="process-date" content="2022-12-05" />
</head>
<body class="document">
<p class="new-breadcrumbs"><a href="inheritancetax.xhtml">INHERITANCE TAX</a>&#x00a0;&#x00a0;|&#x00a0;&#x00a0;<a href="624-tran-1.xhtml">&#x00b6;624-000 Transfers On Death</a>&#x00a0;&#x00a0;|&#x00a0;&#x00a0;<a href="624-tran-13.xhtml">&#x00b6;629-600 Allocation Of The Tax Burden Among Beneficiaries</a>&#x00a0;&#x00a0;|&#x00a0;&#x00a0;<a href="624-tran-19.xhtml">&#x00b6;630-750 Estates Partly Exempt And Partly Chargeable</a></p><h1 class="new-cch-paragraph"><span >[&#x00b6;<span >630-850</span>]&#x00a0;Abatement of gifts</span></h1>
<p class="new-p">Before launching into the attribution of value to specific gifts, the legislation deals in <span class="hiddenref">ihta1984 s 37</span><span ><a href="ihta84-iht-s-37.xhtml">IHTA 1984, s. 37</a></span> with situations where abatement of gifts is necessary, whether for non-tax reasons or as a result of the value attributed by the provisions following.</p>
<p class="new-p">Where a gift has to be abated because of insufficiency of assets, without any regard to the tax charge, the value of the gift is taken to be its value after the abatement (<span class="hiddenref">ihta1984 s 37</span><span ><a href="ihta84-iht-s-37.xhtml">s. 37(1)</a></span>).</p>
<div class="deloitte-border">
    <p class="new-indent-p"><b>Example</b></p>
    <p class="new-indent-p">Paul dies leaving an estate valued at &#163;70,000. In his will he bequeaths a specific gift of &#163;80,000 to John with residue to Richard. The value of John's gift for tax is taken to be &#163;70,000.</p>
</div>
<p class="new-p">It may, however, be the case that a gift does not require abatement until the effect of the tax charge is considered. As explained below, attribution of value to gifts will often require grossing them up, and the grossed-up value may then exceed the total estate. If so, the gifts are treated as reduced to the extent necessary to reduce their value to that of the available estate (<span class="hiddenref">ihta1984 s 37</span><span ><a href="ihta84-iht-s-37.xhtml">s. 37(2)</a></span>).</p>
<p class="new-p">Where more than one gift has to be reduced, the order of reduction follows the order in which abatement for insufficiency of funds would be made, depending either on the testator's instructions or on the general law, as laid down in the <span class="hiddenref">notrep s 34</span><span ><i>Administration of Estates Act</i> 1925, s. 34(3)</span> and <span class="hiddenref">notrep sch 1</span><span >Sch. 1</span>. (In Scotland, abatement of legacies is governed by common law, and takes place in the following order: (1) shares of residue; (2) general legacies, i.e. subject-matter bequeathed without any character distinguishing it from others of the same kind belonging to the deceased; (3) special legacies, i.e. subject-matter identified precisely.)</p>
<div class="deloitte-border">
    <p class="new-indent-p"><b>Example</b></p>
    <p class="new-indent-p">Simon dies leaving an estate valued at &#163;150,000. In his will he bequeaths a painting worth &#163;70,000 to Tom and a cash sum of &#163;60,000 to Victor, both free of tax, with residue to his widow. Assume that Simon has made chargeable lifetime transfers of &#163;303,000 so that there is &#163;22,000 of nil rate band remaining (2019-20 rates).  This means that &#163;108,000 (&#163;130,000 &#8211; 108,000) must be grossed up (under <span class="hiddenref">ihta1984 s 38</span><span ><a href="ihta84-iht-s-38.xhtml">s. 38(3)</a></span>: see <a href="631-000.xhtml">&#x00b6;631-000</a>), using the fraction 5/3, giving a gross figure of &#163;180,000. Following <span class="hiddenref">ihta1984 s 37</span><span ><a href="ihta84-iht-s-37.xhtml">s. 37(2)</a></span>, an abatement must be made, and according to the general law Victor's gift is abated first. It is reduced to &#163;42,000, being the figure which, when grossed up along with the value of Tom's gift, amounts to &#163;150,000 (5/3 x (&#163;42,000 + &#163;70,000 - &#163;22,000)).</p>
</div>
<p class="new-sub-head1">Abatement of gifts out of different funds</p>
<p class="new-p">Where gifts take effect separately out of different funds, the provisions above regarding abatement are applied separately to each fund (<span class="hiddenref">ihta1984 s 40</span><span ><a href="ihta84-iht-s-40.xhtml">s. 40</a></span>).</p>

</body>
</html>
