<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
	xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8"></meta>
		<title>The Waste Land</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="wasteland.css" class="day" title="day"/> 
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" href="wasteland-night.css" class="night" title="night"/>		
	</head>
	<body>
		<section epub:type="frontmatter" id="frontmatter">
			<section epub:type="titlepage" id="titlepage">
				<h1>The Waste Land</h1>
				<div class="aut">T.S. Eliot</div>
				<div epub:type="epigraph">					
					<p>
						<span xml:lang="la">"Nam Sibyllam quidem Cumis ego ipse oculis
							meis<br />vidi in ampulla pendere, et cum illi pueri dicerent</span>: <br />
						<span xml:lang="grc"
							>&#x03A3;&#x03AF;&#x03B2;&#x03C5;&#x03BB;&#x03BB;&#x03B1;
							&#x03C4;&#x03AF;
							&#x03F4;&#x03AD;&#x03BB;&#x03B5;&#x03B9;&#x03C2;<!--Sibylla ti theleis-->
						</span>; <span xml:lang="la">respondebat illa</span>: <span xml:lang="grc"
							>&#x03AC;&#x03C0;&#x03BF;&#x03F4;&#x03B1;&#x03B3;&#x03B5;&#x1FD6;&#x03B3;
							&#x03F4;&#x03AD;&#x03BB;&#x03E3;<!--apothanein thelo-->
						</span>."</p>
				</div>
				<p epub:type="dedication">For Ezra Pound: <span xml:lang="it">il miglior
						fabbro</span></p>
			</section>
		</section>
		<section epub:type="bodymatter" id="bodymatter">

			<section id="ch1">
				<h2>I. THE BURIAL OF THE DEAD</h2>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">April is the cruellest month, breeding</div>
					<div class="ln">Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing</div>
					<div class="ln">Memory and desire, stirring</div>
					<div class="ln">Dull roots with spring rain.</div>
					<div class="ln">Winter kept us warm, covering</div>
					<div class="ln">Earth in forgetful snow, feeding</div>
					<div class="ln">A little life with dried tubers.</div>
					<div class="ln">Summer surprised us, coming over the Starnbergersee</div>
					<div class="ln">With a shower of rain; we stopped in the colonnade,</div>
					<div class="ln">And went on in sunlight, into the Hofgarten,<span class="lnum"
							>10</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">And drank coffee, and talked for an hour.</div>
					<div class="ln" xml:lang="de">Bin gar keine Russin, stamm' aus Litauen, echt
						deutsch.</div>
					<div class="ln">And when we were children, staying at the archduke's,</div>
					<div class="ln">My cousin's, he took me out on a sled,</div>
					<div class="ln">And I was frightened. He said, Marie,</div>
					<div class="ln">Marie, hold on tight. And down we went.</div>
					<div class="ln">In the mountains, there you feel free.</div>
					<div class="ln">I read, much of the night, and go south in the winter.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">What are the roots that clutch, what branches grow</div>
					<div class="ln">Out of this stony rubbish? Son of man,<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
						href="#note-1">*</a><span class="lnum">20</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">You cannot say, or guess, for you know only</div>
					<div class="ln">A heap of broken images, where the sun beats,</div>
					<div class="ln">And the dead tree gives no shelter, the cricket no relief,<a
						epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-2">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">And the dry stone no sound of water. Only</div>
					<div class="ln">There is shadow under this red rock,</div>
					<div class="ln">(Come in under the shadow of this red rock),</div>
					<div class="ln">And I will show you something different from either</div>
					<div class="ln">Your shadow at morning striding behind you</div>
					<div class="ln">Or your shadow at evening rising to meet you;</div>
					<div class="ln">I will show you fear in a handful of dust.<span class="lnum"
							>30</span>
					</div>
					<blockquote xml:lang="de">
						<div>
							<div class="ln">Frisch weht der Wind<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
									href="#note-3">*</a>
							</div>
							<div class="ln">Der Heimat zu</div>
							<div class="ln">Mein Irisch Kind,</div>
							<div class="ln">Wo weilest du?</div>
						</div>
					</blockquote>
					<div class="ln">"You gave me hyacinths first a year ago;</div>
					<div class="ln">"They called me the hyacinth girl."</div>
					<div class="ln">&#x2015;Yet when we came back, late, from the Hyacinth
						garden,</div>
					<div class="ln">Your arms full, and your hair wet, I could not</div>
					<div class="ln">Speak, and my eyes failed, I was neither</div>
					<div class="ln">Living nor dead, and I knew nothing,<span class="lnum"
							>40</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Looking into the heart of light, the silence.</div>
					<div class="ln" xml:lang="de">
						<em>Od' und leer das Meer</em>.<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-4">*</a>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Madame Sosostris, famous clairvoyante,</div>
					<div class="ln">Had a bad cold, nevertheless</div>
					<div class="ln">Is known to be the wisest woman in Europe,</div>
					<div class="ln">With a wicked pack of cards. Here, said she,<a
						epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-5">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">Is your card, the drowned Phoenician Sailor,</div>
					<div class="ln">(Those are pearls that were his eyes. Look!)</div>
					<div class="ln">Here is Belladonna, the Lady of the Rocks,</div>
					<div class="ln">The lady of situations.<span class="lnum">50</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Here is the man with three staves, and here the Wheel,</div>
					<div class="ln">And here is the one-eyed merchant, and this card,</div>
					<div class="ln">Which is blank, is something he carries on his back,</div>
					<div class="ln">Which I am forbidden to see. I do not find</div>
					<div class="ln">The Hanged Man. Fear death by water.</div>
					<div class="ln">I see crowds of people, walking round in a ring.</div>
					<div class="ln">Thank you. If you see dear Mrs. Equitone,</div>
					<div class="ln">Tell her I bring the horoscope myself:</div>
					<div class="ln">One must be so careful these days.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Unreal City,<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-6">*</a><span
							class="lnum">60</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Under the brown fog of a winter dawn,</div>
					<div class="ln">A crowd flowed over London Bridge, so many,</div>
					<div class="ln">I had not thought death had undone so many.<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-7">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Sighs, short and infrequent, were exhaled,<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
						href="#note-8">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">And each man fixed his eyes before his feet.</div>
					<div class="ln">Flowed up the hill and down King William Street,</div>
					<div class="ln">To where Saint Mary Woolnoth kept the hours</div>
					<div class="ln">With a dead sound on the final stroke of nine.<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-9">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">There I saw one I knew, and stopped him, crying
						"Stetson!</div>
					<div class="ln">"You who were with me in the ships at Mylae!<span class="lnum"
							>70</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">"That corpse you planted last year in your garden,</div>
					<div class="ln">"Has it begun to sprout? Will it bloom this year?</div>
					<div class="ln">"Or has the sudden frost disturbed its bed?</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">"Oh keep the Dog far hence, that's friend to men,<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-10">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">"Or with his nails he'll dig it up again!</div>
					<div class="ln">"You! <span xml:lang="fr">hypocrite lecteur! - mon semblable, -
							mon frere</span> !"<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-11">*</a>
					</div>
				</div>
			</section>
			<section id="ch2">
				<h2>II. A GAME OF CHESS</h2>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">The Chair she sat in, like a burnished throne,<a
						epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-12">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">Glowed on the marble, where the glass</div>
					<div class="ln">Held up by standards wrought with fruited vines</div>
					<div class="ln">From which a golden Cupidon peeped out<span class="lnum"
							>80</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">(Another hid his eyes behind his wing)</div>
					<div class="ln">Doubled the flames of sevenbranched candelabra</div>
					<div class="ln">Reflecting light upon the table as</div>
					<div class="ln">The glitter of her jewels rose to meet it,</div>
					<div class="ln">From satin cases poured in rich profusion;</div>
					<div class="ln">In vials of ivory and coloured glass</div>
					<div class="ln">Unstoppered, lurked her strange synthetic perfumes,</div>
					<div class="ln">Unguent, powdered, or liquid - troubled, confused</div>
					<div class="ln">And drowned the sense in odours; stirred by the air</div>
					<div class="ln">That freshened from the window, these ascended<span
							class="lnum">90</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">In fattening the prolonged candle-flames,</div>
					<div class="ln">Flung their smoke into the laquearia,<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
						href="#note-13">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">Stirring the pattern on the coffered ceiling.</div>
					<div class="ln">Huge sea-wood fed with copper</div>
					<div class="ln">Burned green and orange, framed by the coloured stone,</div>
					<div class="ln">In which sad light a carved dolphin swam.</div>
					<div class="ln">Above the antique mantel was displayed</div>
					<div class="ln">As though a window gave upon the sylvan scene<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-14">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The change of Philomel, by the barbarous king<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-15">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">So rudely forced; yet there the nightingale<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-16">*</a>
						<span class="lnum">100</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Filled all the desert with inviolable voice</div>
					<div class="ln">And still she cried, and still the world pursues,</div>
					<div class="ln">"Jug Jug" to dirty ears.</div>
					<div class="ln">And other withered stumps of time</div>
					<div class="ln">Were told upon the walls; staring forms</div>
					<div class="ln">Leaned out, leaning, hushing the room enclosed.</div>
					<div class="ln">Footsteps shuffled on the stair.</div>
					<div class="ln">Under the firelight, under the brush, her hair</div>
					<div class="ln">Spread out in fiery points</div>
					<div class="ln">Glowed into words, then would be savagely still.<span
							class="lnum">110</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="linegroup">
						<div class="ln">"My nerves are bad to-night. Yes, bad. Stay with me.</div>
						<div class="ln">"Speak to me. Why do you never speak. Speak.</div>
						<div class="ln">"What are you thinking of? What thinking? What?</div>
						<div class="ln">"I never know what you are thinking. Think."</div>
					</div>
					<div class="linegroup">
						<div class="ln">I think we are in rats' alley<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
								href="#note-17">*</a>
						</div>
						<div class="ln">Where the dead men lost their bones.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">"What is that noise?"</div>
					<div class="ln">The wind under the door.<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-18"
							>*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">"What is that noise now? What is the wind doing?"</div>
					<div class="ln">Nothing again nothing.<span class="lnum">120</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">"Do</div>
					<div class="ln">"You know nothing? Do you see nothing? Do you remember</div>
					<div class="ln">"Nothing?"</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">I remember</div>
					<div class="ln">Those are pearls that were his eyes.</div>
					<div class="ln">"Are you alive, or not? Is there nothing in your head?"<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-19">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">But</div>
					<div class="ln">O O O O that Shakespeherian Rag&#x2015;</div>
					<div class="ln">It's so elegant</div>
					<div class="ln">So intelligent<span class="lnum">130</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">"What shall I do now? What shall I do?"</div>
					<div class="ln">I shall rush out as I am, and walk the street</div>
					<div class="ln">"With my hair down, so. What shall we do to-morrow?</div>
					<div class="ln">"What shall we ever do?"</div>
					<div class="ln">The hot water at ten.</div>
					<div class="ln">And if it rains, a closed car at four.</div>
					<div class="ln">And we shall play a game of chess,</div>
					<div class="ln">Pressing lidless eyes and waiting for a knock upon the door.<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-20">*</a>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">When Lil's husband got demobbed, I said -</div>
					<div class="ln">I didn't mince my words, I said to her myself,<span
							class="lnum">140</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME</div>
					<div class="ln">Now Albert's coming back, make yourself a bit smart.</div>
					<div class="ln">He'll want to know what you done with that money he gave
						you</div>
					<div class="ln">To get yourself some teeth. He did, I was there.</div>
					<div class="ln">You have them all out, Lil, and get a nice set,</div>
					<div class="ln">He said, I swear, I can't bear to look at you.</div>
					<div class="ln">And no more can't I, I said, and think of poor Albert,</div>
					<div class="ln">He's been in the army four years, he wants a good time,</div>
					<div class="ln">And if you don't give it him, there's others will, I
						said.</div>
					<div class="ln">Oh is there, she said. Something o' that, I said.<span
							class="lnum">150</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Then I'll know who to thank, she said, and give me a straight
						look.</div>
					<div class="ln">HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME</div>
					<div class="ln">If you don't like it you can get on with it, I said.</div>
					<div class="ln">Others can pick and choose if you can't.</div>
					<div class="ln">But if Albert makes off, it won't be for lack of
						telling.</div>
					<div class="ln">You ought to be ashamed, I said, to look so antique.</div>
					<div class="ln">(And her only thirty-one.)</div>
					<div class="ln">I can't help it, she said, pulling a long face,</div>
					<div class="ln">It's them pills I took, to bring it off, she said.</div>
					<div class="ln">(She's had five already, and nearly died of young George.)<span
							class="lnum">160</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The chemist said it would be all right, but I've never been the
						same.</div>
					<div class="ln">You <em>are</em> a proper fool, I said.</div>
					<div class="ln">Well, if Albert won't leave you alone, there it is, I
						said,</div>
					<div class="ln">What you get married for if you don't want children?</div>
					<div class="ln">HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME</div>
					<div class="ln">Well, that Sunday Albert was home, they had a hot
						gammon,</div>
					<div class="ln">And they asked me in to dinner, to get the beauty of it
						hot&#x2015;</div>
					<div class="ln">HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME</div>
					<div class="ln">HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME</div>
					<div class="ln">Goonight Bill. Goonight Lou. Goonight May. Goonight.<span
							class="lnum">170</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Ta ta. Goonight. Goonight.</div>
					<div class="ln">Good night, ladies, good night, sweet ladies, good night, good
						night.</div>
				</div>
			</section>
			<section id="ch3">
				<h2>III. THE FIRE SERMON</h2>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">The river's tent is broken: the last fingers of leaf</div>
					<div class="ln">Clutch and sink into the wet bank. The wind</div>
					<div class="ln">Crosses the brown land, unheard. The nymphs are
						departed.</div>
					<div class="ln">Sweet Thames, run softly, till I end my song.<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-21">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The river bears no empty bottles, sandwich papers,</div>
					<div class="ln">Silk handkerchiefs, cardboard boxes, cigarette ends</div>
					<div class="ln">Or other testimony of summer nights. The nymphs are
						departed.</div>
					<div class="ln">And their friends, the loitering heirs of city directors;<span
							class="lnum">180</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Departed, have left no addresses.</div>
					<div class="ln">By the waters of Leman I sat down and wept . . .</div>
					<div class="ln">Sweet Thames, run softly till I end my song,</div>
					<div class="ln">Sweet Thames, run softly, for I speak not loud or long.</div>
					<div class="ln">But at my back in a cold blast I hear</div>
					<div class="ln">The rattle of the bones, and chuckle spread from ear to
						ear.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">A rat crept softly through the vegetation</div>
					<div class="ln">Dragging its slimy belly on the bank</div>
					<div class="ln">While I was fishing in the dull canal</div>
					<div class="ln">On a winter evening round behind the gashouse<span class="lnum"
							>190</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Musing upon the king my brother's wreck</div>
					<div class="ln">And on the king my father's death before him.<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-22">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">White bodies naked on the low damp ground</div>
					<div class="ln">And bones cast in a little low dry garret,</div>
					<div class="ln">Rattled by the rat's foot only, year to year.</div>
					<div class="ln">But at my back from time to time I hear<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-23">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The sound of horns and motors, which shall bring<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-24">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Sweeney to Mrs. Porter in the spring.</div>
					<div class="ln">O the moon shone bright on Mrs. Porter<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-25">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">And on her daughter<span class="lnum">200</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">They wash their feet in soda water</div>
					<div class="ln" xml:lang="fr">
						<em>Et O ces voix d'enfants, chantant dans la coupole</em>!<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-26">*</a></div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Twit twit twit</div>
					<div class="ln">Jug jug jug jug jug jug</div>
					<div class="ln">So rudely forc'd.</div>
					<div class="ln">Tereu</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Unreal City</div>
					<div class="ln">Under the brown fog of a winter noon</div>
					<div class="ln">Mr. Eugenides, the Smyrna merchant</div>
					<div class="ln">Unshaven, with a pocket full of currants<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-27">*</a>
						<span class="lnum">210</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">C.i.f. London: documents at sight,</div>
					<div class="ln">Asked me in demotic French</div>
					<div class="ln">To luncheon at the Cannon Street Hotel</div>
					<div class="ln">Followed by a weekend at the Metropole.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">At the violet hour, when the eyes and back</div>
					<div class="ln">Turn upward from the desk, when the human engine waits</div>
					<div class="ln">Like a taxi throbbing waiting,</div>
					<div class="ln">I Tiresias, though blind, throbbing between two lives,<a
						epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-28">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">Old man with wrinkled female breasts, can see</div>
					<div class="ln">At the violet hour, the evening hour that strives<span
							class="lnum">220</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Homeward, and brings the sailor home from sea,<a
						epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-29">*</a></div>
					<div class="ln">The typist home at teatime, clears her breakfast, lights</div>
					<div class="ln">Her stove, and lays out food in tins.</div>
					<div class="ln">Out of the window perilously spread</div>
					<div class="ln">Her drying combinations touched by the sun's last rays,</div>
					<div class="ln">On the divan are piled (at night her bed)</div>
					<div class="ln">Stockings, slippers, camisoles, and stays.</div>
					<div class="ln">I Tiresias, old man with wrinkled dugs</div>
					<div class="ln">Perceived the scene, and foretold the rest -</div>
					<div class="ln">I too awaited the expected guest.<span class="lnum">230</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">He, the young man carbuncular, arrives,</div>
					<div class="ln">A small house agent's clerk, with one bold stare,</div>
					<div class="ln">One of the low on whom assurance sits</div>
					<div class="ln">As a silk hat on a Bradford millionaire.</div>
					<div class="ln">The time is now propitious, as he guesses,</div>
					<div class="ln">The meal is ended, she is bored and tired,</div>
					<div class="ln">Endeavours to engage her in caresses</div>
					<div class="ln">Which still are unreproved, if undesired.</div>
					<div class="ln">Flushed and decided, he assaults at once;</div>
					<div class="ln">Exploring hands encounter no defence;<span class="lnum"
							>240</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">His vanity requires no response,</div>
					<div class="ln">And makes a welcome of indifference.</div>
					<div class="ln">(And I Tiresias have foresuffered all</div>
					<div class="ln">Enacted on this same divan or bed;</div>
					<div class="ln">I who have sat by Thebes below the wall</div>
					<div class="ln">And walked among the lowest of the dead.)</div>
					<div class="ln">Bestows one final patronising kiss,</div>
					<div class="ln">And gropes his way, finding the stairs unlit . . .</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">She turns and looks a moment in the glass,</div>
					<div class="ln">Hardly aware of her departed lover;<span class="lnum"
							>250</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Her brain allows one half-formed thought to pass:</div>
					<div class="ln">"Well now that's done: and I'm glad it's over."</div>
					<div class="ln">When lovely woman stoops to folly and<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-30">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Paces about her room again, alone,</div>
					<div class="ln">She smoothes her hair with automatic hand,</div>
					<div class="ln">And puts a record on the gramophone.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">"This music crept by me upon the waters"<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-31">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">And along the Strand, up Queen Victoria Street.</div>
					<div class="ln">O City city, I can sometimes hear</div>
					<div class="ln">Beside a public bar in Lower Thames Street,<span class="lnum"
							>260</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The pleasant whining of a mandoline</div>
					<div class="ln">And a clatter and a chatter from within</div>
					<div class="ln">Where fishmen lounge at noon: where the walls</div>
					<div class="ln">Of Magnus Martyr hold<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-32"
							>*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Inexplicable splendour of Ionian white and gold.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">The river sweats<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-33">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Oil and tar</div>
					<div class="ln">The barges drift</div>
					<div class="ln">With the turning tide</div>
					<div class="ln">Red sails<span class="lnum">270</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Wide</div>
					<div class="ln">To leeward, swing on the heavy spar.</div>
					<div class="ln">The barges wash</div>
					<div class="ln">Drifting logs</div>
					<div class="ln">Down Greenwich reach</div>
					<div class="ln">Past the Isle of Dogs.</div>
					<div class="ln">Weialala leia</div>
					<div class="ln">Wallala leialala</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Elizabeth and Leicester<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-34"
							>*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Beating oars<span class="lnum">280</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The stern was formed</div>
					<div class="ln">A gilded shell</div>
					<div class="ln">Red and gold</div>
					<div class="ln">The brisk swell</div>
					<div class="ln">Rippled both shores</div>
					<div class="ln">Southwest wind</div>
					<div class="ln">Carried down stream</div>
					<div class="ln">The peal of bells</div>
					<div class="ln">White towers</div>
					<div class="ln">Weialala leia<span class="lnum">290</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Wallala leialala</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">"Trams and dusty trees.</div>
					<div class="ln">Highbury bore me. Richmond and Kew<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-35">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Undid me. By Richmond I raised my knees</div>
					<div class="ln">Supine on the floor of a narrow canoe."</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">"My feet are at Moorgate, and my heart</div>
					<div class="ln">Under my feet. After the event</div>
					<div class="ln">He wept. He promised 'a new start'.</div>
					<div class="ln">I made no comment. What should I resent?"</div>
					<div class="ln">"On Margate Sands.<span class="lnum">300</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">I can connect</div>
					<div class="ln">Nothing with nothing.</div>
					<div class="ln">The broken fingernails of dirty hands.</div>
					<div class="ln">My people humble people who expect</div>
					<div class="ln">Nothing."</div>
					<div class="ln">la la</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">To Carthage then I came<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-36"
							>*</a>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Burning burning burning burning<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-37">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">O Lord Thou pluckest me out<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-38">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">O Lord Thou pluckest<span class="lnum">310</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">burning</div>
				</div>
			</section>
			<section id="ch4">
				<h2>IV. DEATH BY WATER</h2>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Phlebas the Phoenician, a fortnight dead,</div>
					<div class="ln">Forgot the cry of gulls, and the deep sea swell</div>
					<div class="ln">And the profit and loss.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">A current under sea</div>
					<div class="ln">Picked his bones in whispers. As he rose and fell</div>
					<div class="ln">He passed the stages of his age and youth</div>
					<div class="ln">Entering the whirlpool.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Gentile or Jew</div>
					<div class="ln">O you who turn the wheel and look to windward,<span
							class="lnum">320</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Consider Phlebas, who was once handsome and tall as you.</div>
				</div>
			</section>
			<section id="ch5">
				<h2>V. WHAT THE THUNDER SAID</h2>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">After the torchlight red on sweaty faces</div>
					<div class="ln">After the frosty silence in the gardens</div>
					<div class="ln">After the agony in stony places</div>
					<div class="ln">The shouting and the crying</div>
					<div class="ln">Prison and palace and reverberation</div>
					<div class="ln">Of thunder of spring over distant mountains</div>
					<div class="ln">He who was living is now dead</div>
					<div class="ln">We who were living are now dying</div>
					<div class="ln">With a little patience<span class="lnum">330</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Here is no water but only rock</div>
					<div class="ln">Rock and no water and the sandy road</div>
					<div class="ln">The road winding above among the mountains</div>
					<div class="ln">Which are mountains of rock without water</div>
					<div class="ln">If there were water we should stop and drink</div>
					<div class="ln">Amongst the rock one cannot stop or think</div>
					<div class="ln">Sweat is dry and feet are in the sand</div>
					<div class="ln">If there were only water amongst the rock</div>
					<div class="ln">Dead mountain mouth of carious teeth that cannot spit</div>
					<div class="ln">Here one can neither stand nor lie nor sit<span class="lnum"
							>340</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">There is not even silence in the mountains</div>
					<div class="ln">But dry sterile thunder without rain</div>
					<div class="ln">There is not even solitude in the mountains</div>
					<div class="ln">But red sullen faces sneer and snarl</div>
					<div class="ln">From doors of mudcracked houses</div>
					<div class="linegroup">
						<div class="ln">If there were water</div>
						<div class="ln">And no rock</div>
						<div class="ln">If there were rock</div>
						<div class="ln">And also water</div>
						<div class="ln">And water<span class="lnum">350</span>
						</div>
						<div class="ln">A spring</div>
						<div class="ln">A pool among the rock</div>
						<div class="ln">If there were the sound of water only</div>
						<div class="ln">Not the cicada</div>
						<div class="ln">And dry grass singing</div>
						<div class="ln">But sound of water over a rock</div>
						<div class="ln">Where the hermit-thrush sings in the pine trees<a
								epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-39">*</a>
						</div>
						<div class="ln">Drip drop drip drop drop drop drop</div>
						<div class="ln">But there is no water</div>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Who is the third who walks always beside you?<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-40">*</a>
						<span class="lnum">360</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">When I count, there are only you and I together</div>
					<div class="ln">But when I look ahead up the white road</div>
					<div class="ln">There is always another one walking beside you</div>
					<div class="ln">Gliding wrapt in a brown mantle, hooded</div>
					<div class="ln">I do not know whether a man or a woman</div>
					<div class="ln">&#x2015;But who is that on the other side of you?<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-41">*</a>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">What is that sound high in the air</div>
					<div class="ln">Murmur of maternal lamentation</div>
					<div class="ln">Who are those hooded hordes swarming</div>
					<div class="ln">Over endless plains, stumbling in cracked earth<span
							class="lnum">370</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Ringed by the flat horizon only</div>
					<div class="ln">What is the city over the mountains</div>
					<div class="ln">Cracks and reforms and bursts in the violet air</div>
					<div class="ln">Falling towers</div>
					<div class="ln">Jerusalem Athens Alexandria</div>
					<div class="ln">Vienna London</div>
					<div class="ln">Unreal</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">A woman drew her long black hair out tight</div>
					<div class="ln">And fiddled whisper music on those strings</div>
					<div class="ln">And bats with baby faces in the violet light<span class="lnum"
							>380</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Whistled, and beat their wings</div>
					<div class="ln">And crawled head downward down a blackened wall</div>
					<div class="ln">And upside down in air were towers</div>
					<div class="ln">Tolling reminiscent bells, that kept the hours</div>
					<div class="ln">And voices singing out of empty cisterns and exhausted
						wells.</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">In this decayed hole among the mountains</div>
					<div class="ln">In the faint moonlight, the grass is singing</div>
					<div class="ln">Over the tumbled graves, about the chapel</div>
					<div class="ln">There is the empty chapel, only the wind's home.</div>
					<div class="ln">It has no windows, and the door swings,<span class="lnum"
							>390</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Dry bones can harm no one.</div>
					<div class="ln">Only a cock stood on the rooftree</div>
					<div class="ln">Co co rico co co rico</div>
					<div class="ln">In a flash of lightning. Then a damp gust</div>
					<div class="ln">Bringing rain</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">Ganga was sunken, and the limp leaves</div>
					<div class="ln">Waited for rain, while the black clouds</div>
					<div class="ln">Gathered far distant, over Himavant.</div>
					<div class="ln">The jungle crouched, humped in silence.</div>
					<div class="ln">Then spoke the thunder<span class="lnum">400</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">DA</div>
					<div class="ln">
						<span xml:lang="sa">Datta</span>: what have we given?<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-42">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">My friend, blood shaking my heart</div>
					<div class="ln">The awful daring of a moment's surrender</div>
					<div class="ln">Which an age of prudence can never retract</div>
					<div class="ln">By this, and this only, we have existed</div>
					<div class="ln">Which is not to be found in our obituaries </div>
					<div class="ln">Or in memories draped by the beneficent spider<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-43">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Or under seals broken by the lean solicitor</div>
					<div class="ln">In our empty rooms<span class="lnum">410</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">DA</div>
					<div class="ln">
						<span xml:lang="sa">Dayadhvam</span>: I have heard the key<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-44">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Turn in the door once and turn once only</div>
					<div class="ln">We think of the key, each in his prison</div>
					<div class="ln">Thinking of the key, each confirms a prison</div>
					<div class="ln">Only at nightfall, aetherial rumours</div>
					<div class="ln">Revive for a moment a broken Coriolanus</div>
					<div class="ln">DA</div>
					<div class="ln">
						<span xml:lang="sa">Damyata</span>: The boat responded</div>
					<div class="ln">Gaily, to the hand expert with sail and oar<span class="lnum"
							>420</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">The sea was calm, your heart would have responded</div>
					<div class="ln">Gaily, when invited, beating obedient</div>
					<div class="ln">To controlling hands</div>
				</div>
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="ln">I sat upon the shore</div>
					<div class="ln">Fishing, with the arid plain behind me<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
							href="#note-45">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">Shall I at least set my lands in order?</div>
					<div class="ln">London Bridge is falling down falling down falling down</div>
					<div class="ln" xml:lang="it">
						<em>Poi s'ascose nel foco che gli affina</em>
						<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-46">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">
						<span xml:lang="it">
							<em>Quando fiam ceu chelidon</em>
						</span> - O swallow swallow<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-47">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln" xml:lang="fr">
						<em>Le Prince d'Aquitaine a la tour abolie</em>
						<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-48">*</a>
						<span class="lnum">430</span>
					</div>
					<div class="ln">These fragments I have shored against my ruins</div>
					<div class="ln">Why then Ile fit you. Hieronymo's mad againe.<a
							epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="#note-49">*</a>
					</div>
					<div class="ln" xml:lang="sa">Datta. Dayadhvam. Damyata.</div>
					<div class="linegroup">
						<span class="ln" xml:lang="sa">Shantih shantih shantih<a epub:type="noteref" class="noteref"
								href="#note-50">*</a>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
			</section>
		</section>
		<section epub:type="backmatter" id="backmatter">
			<section epub:type="rearnotes" id="rearnotes">
				<h2>NOTES ON "THE WASTE LAND"</h2>
				<p>Not only the title, but the plan and a good deal of the incidental symbolism of
					the poem were suggested by Miss Jessie L. Weston's book on the Grail legend:
					From Ritual to Romance</p>
				<p>Indeed, so deeply am I indebted, Miss Weston's book will elucidate the
					difficulties of the poem much better than my notes can do; and I recommend it
					(apart from the great interest of the book itself) to any who think such
					elucidation of the poem worth the trouble. To another work of anthropology I am
					indebted in general, one which has influenced our generation profoundly; I mean
					The Golden Bough; I have used especially the two volumes Adonis, Attis, Osiris.
					Anyone who is acquainted with these works will immediately recognise in the poem
					certain references to vegetation ceremonies.</p>
				<section>
					<h3>I. THE BURIAL OF THE DEAD</h3>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-1">
						<p>Line 20. Cf. Ezekiel 2:1.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-2">
						<p>23. Cf. Ecclesiastes 12:5.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-3">
						<p>31. V. Tristan und Isolde, i, verses 5-8.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-4">
						<p>42. Id. iii, verse 24.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-5">
						<p>46. I am not familiar with the exact constitution of the Tarot pack of
							cards, from which I have obviously departed to suit my own convenience.
							The Hanged Man, a member of the traditional pack, fits my purpose in two
							ways: because he is associated in my mind with the Hanged God of Frazer,
							and because I associate him with the hooded figure in the passage of the
							disciples to Emmaus in Part V. The Phoenician Sailor and the Merchant
							appear later; also the "crowds of people," and Death by Water is
							executed in Part IV. The Man with Three Staves (an authentic member of
							the Tarot pack) I associate, quite arbitrarily, with the Fisher King
							himself.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-6">
						<p>60. Cf. Baudelaire:</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="fr">
							<p>"Fourmillante cite;, cite; pleine de reves,<br />Ou le spectre en
								plein jour raccroche le passant."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-7">
						<p>63. Cf. Inferno, iii. 55-7.</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="it">
							<p>"si lunga tratta<br />di gente, ch'io non avrei mai creduto<br />che
								morte tanta n'avesse disfatta."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-8">
						<p>64. Cf. Inferno, iv. 25-7:</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="it">
							<p>"Quivi, secondo che per ascoltahre,<br />"non avea pianto, ma' che di
								sospiri,<br />"che l'aura eterna facevan tremare."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-9">
						<p>68. A phenomenon which I have often noticed.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-10">
						<p>74. Cf. the Dirge in Webster's White Devil .</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-11">
						<p>76. V. Baudelaire, Preface to Fleurs du Mal.</p>
					</div>
				</section>
				<section>
					<h3>II. A GAME OF CHESS</h3>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-12">
						<p>77. Cf. Antony and Cleopatra, II. ii., l. 190.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-13">
						<p>92. Laquearia. V. Aeneid, I. 726:</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="la">
							<p>dependent lychni laquearibus aureis incensi, et noctem
								flammis<br />funalia vincunt.</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-14">
						<p>98. Sylvan scene. V. Milton, Paradise Lost, iv. 140.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-15">
						<p>99. V. Ovid, Metamorphoses, vi, Philomela.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-16">
						<p>100. Cf. Part III, l. 204.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-17">
						<p>115. Cf. Part III, l. 195.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-18">
						<p>118. Cf. Webster:</p>
						<blockquote>
							<p>"Is the wind in that door still?"</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-19">
						<p>126. Cf. Part I, l. 37, 48.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-20">
						<p>138. Cf. the game of chess in Middleton's Women beware Women.</p>
					</div>
				</section>
				<section>
					<h3>III. THE FIRE SERMON</h3>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-21">
						<p>176. V. Spenser, Prothalamion.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-22">
						<p>192. Cf. The Tempest, I. ii.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-23">
						<p>196. Cf. Marvell, To His Coy Mistress.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-24">
						<p>197. Cf. Day, Parliament of Bees:</p>
						<blockquote>
							<div>
								<div class="ln">"When of the sudden, listening, you shall
									hear,</div>
								<div class="ln">"A noise of horns and hunting, which shall
									bring</div>
								<div class="ln">"Actaeon to Diana in the spring,</div>
								<div class="ln">"Where all shall see her naked skin . . ."</div>
							</div>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-25">
						<p>199. I do not know the origin of the ballad from which these lines are
							taken: it was reported to me from Sydney, Australia.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-26">
						<p>202. V. Verlaine, Parsifal.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-27">
						<p>210. The currants were quoted at a price "cost insurance and freight to
							London"; and the Bill of Lading etc. were to be handed to the buyer upon
							payment of the sight draft.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-28">
						<p>218. Tiresias, although a mere spectator and not indeed a "character," is
							yet the most important personage in the poem, uniting all the rest. Just
							as the one-eyed merchant, seller of currants, melts into the Phoenician
							Sailor, and the latter is not wholly distinct from Ferdinand Prince of
							Naples, so all the women are one woman, and the two sexes meet in
							Tiresias. What Tiresias sees, in fact, is the substance of the poem. The
							whole passage from Ovid is of great anthropological interest:</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="la">
							<p>'. . . Cum Iunone iocos et maior vestra profecto est<br /> Quam, quae
								contingit maribus,' dixisse, 'voluptas.'<br /> Illa negat; placuit
								quae sit sententia docti<br /> Quaerere Tiresiae: venus huic erat
								utraque nota.<br /> Nam duo magnorum viridi coeuntia silva<br />
								Corpora serpentum baculi violaverat ictu<br /> Deque viro factus,
								mirabile, femina septem<br /> Egerat autumnos; octavo rursus
								eosdem<br /> Vidit et 'est vestrae si tanta potentia plagae,'<br />
								Dixit 'ut auctoris sortem in contraria mutet,<br /> Nunc quoque vos
								feriam!' percussis anguibus isdem<br /> Forma prior rediit
								genetivaque venit imago.<br /> Arbiter hic igitur sumptus de lite
								iocosa<br /> Dicta Iovis firmat; gravius Saturnia iusto<br /> Nec
								pro materia fertur doluisse suique<br /> Iudicis aeterna damnavit
								lumina nocte,<br /> At pater omnipotens (neque enim licet inrita
								cuiquam<br /> Facta dei fecisse deo) pro lumine adempto<br /> Scire
								futura dedit poenamque levavit honore.<br />
							</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-29">
						<p>221. This may not appear as exact as Sappho's lines, but I had in mind
							the "longshore" or "dory" fisherman, who returns at nightfall.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-30">
						<p>253. V. Goldsmith, the song in The Vicar of Wakefield.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-31">
						<p>257. V. The Tempest, as above.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-32">
						<p>264. The interior of St. Magnus Martyr is to my mind one of the finest
							among Wren's interiors. See The Proposed Demolition of Nineteen City
							Churches (P. S. King &amp; Son, Ltd.).</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-33">
						<p>266. The Song of the (three) Thames-daughters begins here. From line 292
							to 306 inclusive they speak in turn. V. Gutterdsammerung, III. i: the
							Rhine-daughters.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-34">
						<p>279. V. Froude, Elizabeth, Vol. I, ch. iv, letter of De Quadra to Philip
							of Spain:</p>
						<blockquote>
							<div>
								<div class="ln">"In the afternoon we were in a barge, watching the
									games on the river.</div>
								<div class="ln">(The queen) was alone with Lord Robert and myself
									on the poop,</div>
								<div class="ln">when they began to talk nonsense, and went so far
									that Lord Robert</div>
								<div class="ln">at last said, as I was on the spot there was no
									reason why they</div>
								<div class="ln">should not be married if the queen pleased."</div>
							</div>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-35">
						<p>293. Cf. Purgatorio, v. 133:</p>
						<blockquote>
							<p>"Ricorditi di me, che son la Pia;<br />Siena mi fe', disfecemi
								Maremma."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-36">
						<p>307. V. St. Augustine's Confessions: "to Carthage then I came, where a
							cauldron of unholy loves sang all about mine ears."</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-37">
						<p>308. The complete text of the Buddha's Fire Sermon (which corresponds in
							importance to the Sermon on the Mount) from which these words are taken,
							will be found translated in the late Henry Clarke Warren's Buddhism in
							Translation (Harvard Oriental Series). Mr. Warren was one of the great
							pioneers of Buddhist studies in the Occident.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-38">
						<p>309. From St. Augustine's Confessions again. The collocation of these two
							representatives of eastern and western asceticism, as the culmination of
							this part of the poem, is not an accident.</p>
					</div>
				</section>
				<section>
					<h3>V. WHAT THE THUNDER SAID</h3>
					<p>In the first part of Part V three themes are employed: the journey to Emmaus,
						the approach to the Chapel Perilous (see Miss Weston's book) and the present
						decay of eastern Europe.</p>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-39">
						<p>357. This is Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii, the hermit-thrush which I have
							heard in Quebec County. Chapman says (Handbook of Birds of Eastern North
							America) "it is most at home in secluded woodland and thickety retreats.
							. . . Its notes are not remarkable for variety or volume, but in purity
							and sweetness of tone and exquisite modulation they are unequalled." Its
							"water-dripping song" is justly celebrated.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-40">
						<p>360. The following lines were stimulated by the account of one of the
							Antarctic expeditions (I forget which, but I think one of Shackleton's):
							it was related that the party of explorers, at the extremity of their
							strength, had the constant delusion that there was one more member than
							could actually be counted.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-41">
						<p>367-77. Cf. Hermann Hesse, Blick ins Chaos:</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="de">
							<p>"Schon ist halb Europa, schon ist zumindest der halbe Osten Europas
								auf dem<br /> Wege zum Chaos, fhrt betrunken im heiligem Wahn am
								Abgrund entlang<br /> und singt dazu, singt betrunken und hymnisch
								wie Dmitri Karamasoff sang.<br /> Ueber diese Lieder lacht der
								Bsrger beleidigt, der Heilige<br /> und Seher hrt sie mit
								Trvnen."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-42">
						<p>402. <q xml:lang="sa">"Datta, dayadhvam, damyata"</q> (Give, sympathize,
							control). The fable of the meaning of the Thunder is found in the
							Brihadaranyaka-Upanishad, 5, 1. A translation is found in Deussen's
							Sechzig Upanishads des Veda, p. 489.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-43">
						<p>408. Cf. Webster, The White Devil, v. vi:</p>
						<blockquote>
							<p>". . . they'll remarry<br /> Ere the worm pierce your winding-sheet,
								ere the spider<br /> Make a thin curtain for your epitaphs."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-44">
						<p>412. Cf. Inferno, xxxiii. 46:</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="it">
							<p>"ed io sentii chiavar l'uscio di sotto<br /> all'orribile torre."</p>
						</blockquote>
						<p>Also F. H. Bradley, Appearance and Reality, p. 346:</p>
						<blockquote>
							<p>"My external sensations are no less private to myself than are my
								thoughts or my feelings. In either case my experience falls within
								my own circle, a circle closed on the outside; and, with all its
								elements alike, every sphere is opaque to the others which surround
								it. . . . In brief, regarded as an existence which appears in a
								soul, the whole world for each is peculiar and private to that
								soul."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-45">
						<p>425. V. Weston, From Ritual to Romance; chapter on the Fisher King.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-46">
						<p>428. V. Purgatorio, xxvi. 148.</p>
						<blockquote xml:lang="it">
							<p>"'Ara vos prec per aquella valor<br /> 'que vos guida al som de
								l'escalina,<br /> 'sovegna vos a temps de ma dolor.'<br /> Poi
								s'ascose nel foco che gli affina."</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-47">
						<p>429. V. Pervigilium Veneris. Cf. Philomela in Parts II and III.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-48">
						<p>430. V. Gerard de Nerval, Sonnet El Desdichado.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-49">
						<p>432. V. Kyd's Spanish Tragedy.</p>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="rearnote" id="note-50">
						<p>434. Shantih. Repeated as here, a formal ending to an Upanishad. 'The
							Peace which passeth understanding' is a feeble translation of the
							content of this word.</p>
					</div>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
